WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today released a statement announcing the Biden-Harris Administration’s support for waiving intellectual property protections for COVID-19 vaccines.
“This is a global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic call for extraordinary measures.  The Administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections, but in service of ending this pandemic, supports the waiver of those protections for COVID-19 vaccines. We will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO) needed to make that happen. Those negotiations will take time given the consensus-based nature of the institution and the complexity of the issues involved.
“The Administration’s aim is to get as many safe and effective vaccines to as many people as fast as possible.  As our vaccine supply for the American people is secured, the Administration will continue to ramp up its efforts – working with the private sector and all possible partners – to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution.  It will also work to increase the raw materials needed to produce those vaccines.”
“Director-General Okonjo-Iweala’s appointments reflect her commitment to bringing new voices to the WTO at a time when the organization faces real challenges and opportunities for reform and renewal. For the first time, half of the Deputy Directors-General at the WTO are women and the selection of Angela Ellard from the United States brings a proven negotiator and trade expert to this critical role.
“I look forward to meeting all four Deputy Directors-General in Geneva later this year and working with them on an earnest and robust reform agenda while also prioritizing work with WTO members to find pragmatic, effective solutions that save lives and help end the pandemic.”
Beginning at 9:30 AM ET on Monday, May 3, 2021 and continuing Thursday, May 6 through Monday, May 10, the interagency Section 301 Committee will hold hearings to receive public comments regarding proposed tariff actions in the Section 301 investigations of Digital Services Taxes (DSTs) adopted by Austria, India, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom.  The schedule of hearings is as follows:
Witnesses will present direct testimony, which will be followed by questions from the Section 301 Committee.  The hearings are open to the public and will be live streamed at: ustr.gov/live.  The witness lists for the hearing on Monday, May 3 is available here. The live-stream links for the subsequent hearings will be posted on USTR’s website. Transcripts will be available after the hearings conclude.Background:  On June 2, 2020, the U.S. Trade Representative initiated Section 301 investigations of DSTs adopted or under consideration in ten jurisdictions.  In January 2021, the U.S. Trade Representative determined that the DSTs in six of these jurisdictions (Austria, India, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom) are unreasonable or discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce, and are therefore actionable under Section 301.  On March 31, 2021, USTR issued notices requesting public comments and announcing public hearings on proposed trade actions in in the form of additional tariffs of up to 25 percent on specific products of  Austria, India, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom.  The other four DST investigations (of Brazil, the Czech Republic, the EU, and Indonesia) were terminated because these jurisdictions had not adopted or implemented the DSTs under consideration.
WASHINGTON – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released its annual Special 301 Report on the adequacy and effectiveness of U.S. trading partners’ protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.
“Intellectual property rights incentivize our creators, manufacturers, and innovators to invent new products and technologies,” said Ambassador Katherine Tai. “The laws, policies and practices that protect those rights must appropriately balance the interests of creators with those seeking to use their creations. Failing to adequately and effectively protect those rights in foreign markets hurts the U.S. economy, the dynamism of American innovators and the livelihoods of our workers.”
This annual report details USTR’s findings of more than 100 trading partners after significant research and enhanced engagement with stakeholders. Significant elements of the 2021 Special 301 Report include:
The “Special 301” Report is an annual review of the global state of IP protection and enforcement.  USTR conducts this review pursuant to Section 182 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 and the Uruguay Round Agreements Act.
USTR reviewed more than one hundred (100) trading partners for this year’s Special 301 Report, and placed thirty-two (32) of them on the Priority Watch List or Watch List.
In this year’s Report, trading partners on the Priority Watch List present the most significant concerns this year regarding insufficient IP protection or enforcement or actions that otherwise limited market access for persons relying on intellectual property protection.  Nine countries — Argentina, Chile, China, India, Indonesia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, and Venezuela — are on the Priority Watch List.  These countries will be the subject of particularly intense bilateral engagement during the coming year.
Twenty-three trading partners are on the Watch List, and merit bilateral attention to address underlying IP problems:  Algeria, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Guatemala, Kuwait, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Romania, Thailand, Trinidad & Tobago, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.
USTR continued its enhanced approach to public engagement activities in this year’s Special 301 process.  USTR requested written submissions from the public through a notice published in the Federal Register on December 15, 2020 (Federal Register notice).  In addition, due to COVID-19, USTR fostered public participation via written submissions rather than an in-person hearing with the interagency Special 301 Subcommittee of the Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) sending written questions about issues relevant to the review to those that submitted written comments, including to representatives of foreign governments, industry, and non-governmental organizations.  USTR posted the written questions and the written responses online at >www.regulations.gov<, docket number USTR-2020-0041. The Federal Register notice drew submissions from 50 non-government stakeholders and 22 foreign governments.  The submissions filed in response to the Federal Register notice are available to the public online at >www.regulations.gov<, docket number USTR-2020-0041.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel to discuss increasing vaccine production, global health issues and the proposed waiver to certain provisions of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO’s) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ambassador Tai affirmed that the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priority is saving lives and ending the pandemic, and asked for Mr. Bancel’s views on the best way to accelerate global COVID-19 vaccine production and distribution, as well as vaccines for other diseases. The Ambassador emphasized her commitment to working on a coordinated global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ambassador and Mr. Bancel agreed to stay in communication.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai met virtually yesterday with Bill Gates, co-founder and co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to discuss increasing vaccine production, global health issues and the proposed waiver to certain provisions of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ambassador Tai emphasized that the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priority is saving lives and ending the pandemic, and she stressed her commitment to working on a coordinated global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ambassador and Mr. Gates agreed to maintain open lines of communication going forward.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss to discuss the G7 Trade Track and how this work can contribute to improving the lives of workers. Ambassador Tai also expressed her interest in collaborating on addressing topics of mutual interest, including industrial subsidies, climate change, and the large civil aircraft dispute. Ambassador Tai highlighted the need to support the production and equitable distribution of vaccines to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.The two agreed to continue to collaborate on addressing these issues and to maintain an open line of communication.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with John Trizzino, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Business Officer of Novavax to discuss increasing vaccine production, global health issues and the proposed waiver to certain provisions of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for the COVID-19 pandemic. Ambassador Tai sought Mr. Trizzino’s views on steps Novavax is taking to quickly increase equitable production and distribution of vaccines in the United States and around the world. The Ambassador stressed that that the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priority is saving lives and ending the pandemic and explained her commitment to working on a global response to COVID-19, including at the WTO. The Ambassador and Mr. Trizzino agreed to remain in contact going forward.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Dr. Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Pfizer to discuss increasing vaccine production, global health issues and the proposed waiver to certain provisions of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ambassador expressed her deep sympathy for the people of India and reiterated that the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priority is saving lives and ending the pandemic in the United States and around the world.
The Ambassador emphasized her commitment to working with other WTO members on a global response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the role of developing countries in any solution that addresses critical gaps in global production and distribution of vaccines. Dr. Bourla shared his views on the vital importance of enhancing global access to the vaccine and how trade policy could help address the challenges of increasing vaccine production and distribution around the world and they agreed to stay in communication going forward.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Dr. Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President of the BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit, and Head of US Business at AstraZeneca. Ambassador Tai and Dr. Dobber discussed increasing vaccine production, global health issues and the proposed waiver to certain provisions of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ambassador Tai reiterated that the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priority is saving lives and ending the pandemic here at home and around the world. She expressed her deep sympathy for the people of India and highlighted the announcement that the United States was examining options to share AstraZeneca vaccine doses with other countries as they become available. The Ambassador also emphasized her commitment to working with WTO members on a global pandemic response, including the role of developing countries in any effective solution that addresses critical gaps in global production and distribution of vaccines. Dr. Dobber shared his views on the challenges with increasing vaccine production and distribution around the world and they agreed to stay in communication going forward.
WASHINGTON – Ambassador Katherine Tai today joined President Biden at the Leaders Summit on Climate's panel on the "Economic Opportunities of Climate Action." The session highlighted the broad economic benefits of climate action, with a strong focus on job creation.  It also explored the economic benefits of a green recovery, long-term decarbonization and the importance of ensuring that all communities and workers benefit from the clean-energy transition.
The full text of her closing remarks as prepared for delivery are below:I would like to thank President Biden, President Sánchez, President Buhari, President Phuc, President Duda, my colleagues -- Secretary Buttigieg and National Climate Advisor McCarthy -- and all of our panelists for today’s thoughtful and inspiring program.
This week’s Summit underscores the reality that our time to tackle the climate crisis is now. Today’s speakers have shown that taking meaningful steps to combat climate change can be a powerful driver of economic opportunity, good paying jobs, and positive global competition.
As the United States Trade Representative, my work lies at the intersection of domestic and international economic policy.  I know that the care and maintenance of our planet’s environmental conditions are critical to our economic viability and our potential for shared prosperity.
As we say, “necessity is the mother of invention.”  The need to act on climate requires significant change – and it is already sparking innovation and opportunity.
We can build on these beginnings towards a future that is cleaner and brighter, with new market opportunities and high-paying, quality jobs.  And we must do so in a way that advances equity for underserved and marginalized communities.
As countries around the world determine their domestic measures for decarbonization, environmental conservation, and clean energy, trade policy can be a powerful tool to create incentives for positive competition and a race to the top in realizing our collective prosperity.
Historic approaches and new initiatives, like those discussed today and the proposals included in the American Jobs Plan, the Empowering People clean energy initiative, and plans for zero-emissions transportation and transshipment, clearly demonstrate that innovative and dynamic solutions are within our reach.
Most importantly, today’s discussion offers us hope, ideas, and an invitation to join forces, do our part, and realize the goal of transitioning to net zero by 2050 in order to preserve and protect our planet and create economic opportunities for our children and their children. It is now my honor and privilege to introduce the President of the United States, Joe Biden for closing remarks.
WASHINGTON – Ambassador Katherine Tai today released a statement celebrating Earth Day, highlighting her commitment to protecting the environment and tackling climate change through trade policy. Ambassador Tai recently laid out her vision for addressing one of the biggest challenges facing the world during her first major policy speech.
“This Administration has been clear from Day One that protecting our environment and addressing climate change is a core pillar of the Build Back Better agenda. President Biden fulfilled his promise to rejoin the Paris Agreement, and this week he welcomes 40 world leaders to a Summit on Climate, underscoring the urgency – and economic benefits – of taking bold collective action.
“USTR will enthusiastically embrace our responsibility to help solve one of the defining challenges of our time by leveraging trade tools to avert an unfolding economic crisis and protect our planet. We will meet the moment by working collaboratively with our trading partners, unrepresented communities and other key stakeholders to find creative solutions. The environment, climate change, labor, and trade are key to our ability to compete, innovate, and create good-paying jobs that provide hope and opportunity for future generations and underserved communities.
“We will ensure full implementation and enforcement of the environment obligations in our trade agreements. We must continue discouraging a race to the bottom and incentivize a race to the top by pursuing new and ambitions rules to conserve vital resources. And we will explore regulatory and market-based approaches to achieve our net zero goals. Doing this hard work is necessary for our economic resilience, and the long-term sustainability of our way of life, the health and safety of our children, and our future.”
WASHINGTON – Ambassador Katherine Tai released the following statement on the appointment of Elizabeth Baltzan as a Senior Advisor to the United States Trade Representative.
“Beth Baltzan has a wealth of trade and economic policy experience that will be a huge benefit to USTR and the Biden-Harris administration as we work to expand economic opportunity and increase American competitiveness. Having previously served two stints at USTR, the Public Accounting Oversight Board during the financial crisis, and the United States House Ways and Means Committee, she understands the connective tissues in our economy and I look forward to leaning on her expertise and guidance as we shape a worker-centric trade policy.”
Beth Baltzan serves as a Senior Advisor to the U.S. Trade Representative.  Ms. Baltzan previously served as an attorney at USTR from 2003 to 2009. In 2009, Ms. Baltzan joined the Office of International Affairs at the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, working on oversight in the wake of the financial crisis. In 2012, the PCAOB detailed Ms. Baltzan to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, where she investigated banking practices. Ms. Baltzan then served as Democratic Trade Counsel for the House Ways and Means Committee from 2012 to 2016. After returning to USTR to work on litigation matters, in 2017 Ms. Baltzan formed her own trade consultancy practice. She was also a fellow at the Open Markets Institu
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Swedish Minister for Foreign Trade and Nordic Affairs, Anna Hallberg. Ambassador Tai conveyed the Biden Administration’s deep commitment to the transatlantic relationship and its interest in continuing to develop a more positive and productive trade relationship with Sweden and the EU.
The two agreed to coordinate on shared priorities such as climate, labor, inclusiveness, and gender equity and to maintain regular communication.
“Sarah Bianchi and Jayme White have the expertise USTR needs at a critical moment for the country, and the world.  Sarah Bianchi’s deep knowledge of domestic policy and her experience on Capitol Hill, in the White House, and in the private sector will be a great resource to USTR as we integrate domestic and international economic goals in our trade policy. Having worked on trade issues for more than two decades, Jayme White understands the importance of developing bipartisan support for U.S. trade policy that will benefit all Americans. I look forward to drawing on their collective judgement and vast experience as we advance President Biden’s vision to increase American competitiveness and Build Back Better.”
Sarah Bianchi, Deputy United States Trade Representative
Sarah Bianchi has spent nearly a decade in government roles in economic and domestic policy including in the Office of the Vice President, the White House Domestic Policy Council, the Office of Management and Budget and the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.   In 2011, Ms. Bianchi was appointed by then Vice President Biden as his head of economic and domestic policy where she ran the economic and domestic policy team in the Office of the Vice President and coordinated all policy initiatives ranging from workforce competitiveness to manufacturing to budget negotiations. She also served as Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.  Bianchi has also served as a senior advisor to the Biden Institute at the University of Delaware where she worked on a variety of economic policies and served as Chair of the Institute's Policy Advisory Board.
Bianchi has served in a number of private sector roles as well. Most recently, she joined Evercore ISI in 2019 in the macroeconomic research group where she leads the United States public policy research.  She graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University in 1995 and has served on the Senior Advisory Committee at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University since 2004.  Bianchi and her husband have a twelve-year-old daughter and ten-year-old son and live in Arlington Virginia.
Jayme White has spent two decades working to ensure American trade policy empowers American workers and promotes a sustainable environment. Mr. White grew up in Seattle, WA, where his family were union workers for Boeing. He went to Washington, DC to work for his hometown member of Congress in the House of Representatives, Representative Jim McDermott, who served on the Committee on Ways and Means, which has jurisdiction over international trade. Since then, he has played a role in nearly every major trade issue and trade legislation, over the last 20 years.
Mr. White has served in the US Senate since 2009, including as the chief trade advisor for the Senate Committee on Finance since 2014, under the leadership of Chairman Ron Wyden. During this tenure, White led efforts to level the playing field for American workers, through trade negotiations and agreements, and by reforming US trade laws to better respond to unfair foreign trade practices. In his role on the Finance Committee, he has long represented and advanced bipartisan US views to foreign trade leaders, and the outcomes of those efforts are evident in many trade agreements. Key provisions -- especially enforceable measures on labor and the environment -- found in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) are a result of his efforts.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with labor union leaders to discuss the proposed waiver to the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for COVID-19 vaccines.  Ambassador Tai reiterated that the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priority is saving lives and ending the pandemic in the United States and around the world. The Ambassador conveyed the Administration’s commitment to increasing Covid-19 vaccine production and distribution, both at home and worldwide.
The Ambassador sought their views on increasing vaccine availability and preventing the emergence and spread of new variants that could weaken our ability to end the pandemic. She also emphasized her commitment to improving global health preparedness and a worker-centered trade policy.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Sophie Wilmès, the Belgian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Ambassador Tai reaffirmed her commitment to the transatlantic relationship and to working closely with Belgium on WTO reform. They agreed to collaborate on other shared goals, including reducing excess steel and aluminum capacity, addressing forced labor, resolving the Large Civil Aircraft dispute between the U.S. and EU, and increasing the global vaccine supply.Ambassador Tai and Deputy Prime Minister Wilmès agreed to maintain regular communication.






















