Honored to serve as @USTRadeRep. I’m ready to walk, chew gum and play chess at the same time!
These extraordinary times and circumstances of call for extraordinary measures. The US supports the waiver of IP protections on COVID-19 vaccines to help end the pandemic and we’ll actively participate in @WTOnegotiations to make that happen.
Congrats to @NOIweala for picking four new Deputy DGs! They bring new voices to a @WTO facing real challenges and opportunities for reform and renewal.  I look forward to meeting them in Geneva later this year.
This #AAPIHM, we celebrate our diverse heritage and our contributions to the U.S. and the world. I am honored & humbled to represent the community as We must address the increased discrimination & attacks against AANHPIs while working together to Build Back Better.
Great speech from @POTUS! The bold vision you heard tonight will grow the economy, create good paying jobs, and restore American leadership.
I had a great virtual meeting with @trussliz to discuss the #G7 Trade Track and U.S.-UK collaboration on topics of mutual interest, including industrial subsidies, climate change, the large civil aircraft dispute, and the COVID-19 pandemic.
This week’s #LeadersClimateSummit underscores the reality that our time to tackle the climate crisis is now.
Historic approaches and new initiatives, like those discussed today and the proposals included in the American Jobs Plan clearly demonstrate that innovative and dynamic solutions are within our reach.
Today’s discussion offers us hope, ideas, and an invitation to join forces, do our part, and realize the goal of transitioning to net zero by 2050.
Excited to join @POTUS, @SecretaryPete and @ginamccarthy46 this morning at the #LeadersClimateSummit! Watch at
@POTUS has been clear from day one that addressing climate change is a core pillar of his Build Back Better agenda. We need bold, collective action.
We enthusiastically embrace our responsibility to help solve one of the defining challenges of our time by leveraging trade tools to avert an unfolding economic crisis and protect our planet. #EarthDay
I had a great meeting today with @AnnaHallberg_and discussed the U.S. commitment to the transatlantic relationship and deepening U.S.-Swedish and U.S.-EU ties. We also discussed addressing climate change, labor issues, inclusiveness, and gender equity through trade.
I look forward to working with all of you in the days ahead to meet the moment.  I’m ready, and I hope you are too.
This is why I believe that trade policy is an essential and strategic part of the solution to these huge challenges.
The intersection of environment, climate change, labor, and trade are key to our collective ability to compete, innovate, and create livable wage jobs that will provide hope and opportunity for future generations and underserved communities.
And we will not overlook our obligation to take on centuries of discrimination, oppression and bigotry. Racial justice and equity must be central to the conversation.
Our bold, collective action can create enormous new economic opportunities and good paying jobs for all Americans while building the industries of the future.
This work has the potential to unlock new opportunities for U.S. companies who can help reduce emissions and adapt to climate change.
By engaging new – and all too frequently silenced – voices and encouraging fresh, collaborative thinking, we can forge consensus and find solutions that we never knew existed.
We want a robust dialogue.  We expect justice and equity to be on everyone’s agenda, and we welcome creative solutions to the massive challenges we face with the environment, with climate change, and trade as a whole.
From day one, I made it clear that we are not going to do business as usual.  I’ve challenged my team to be thoughtful and innovative in building trusted relationships with stakeholders who haven’t had an established seat at the table or been at the table at all.
I am also fortunate to be working with a strong Biden-Harris team of visionary leaders charting this course on climate change.
For example, climate-friendly and sustainable agricultural production is essential to meeting our climate and sustainability goals. Our farmers and ranchers can lead the world with innovative carbon conservation practices.
My job is to bridge that chasm and push for trade reforms that translate into meaningful change in the lives of farmers, ranchers, factory workers, parents, children – not just in the United States, but around the world.
But that dated line of thinking only perpetuates the chasm that exists between the lived experiences – and expectations – of real people on the one hand, and trade experts on the other.
For too long, the traditional trade community has resisted the view that trade policy is a legitimate tool in helping to solve the climate crisis.
We need a strong, diversified, and resilient supply chain of electric vehicle batteries in America to meet the growing global demand and to expand U.S. manufacturing of clean energy vehicles.
That’s why I was so committed to helping resolve a big trade dispute between SK Innovation and LG Energy Solutions, two South Korean companies who make electric batteries here in the United States.
For climate mitigation, developing innovative environmental technologies, goods, and services and cultivating strategic international supply chains for trade will be key.
Beyond disciplines that discourage harmful behaviors, we can also create rules that promote positive ones.
Going forward, trade has a role to play in discouraging the race to the bottom and incentivizing a race to the top.
I am committed to enforcing the rules of USMCA and our other agreements to ensure not only that we follow through on our promises to protect the planet, but that we protect workers against this kind of unfair competition.
I am all too aware that however laudable the rules, they must actually be enforced.
Critical environmental provisions reflected in the USMCA include strong rules to address:Black small square wildlife trafficking, Black small square illegal logging and fishing, Black small square fisheries subsidies Black small square marine litter, andBlack small squareair and water pollution
USMCA is the most recent example of our own evolution. The updated agreement now includes the most comprehensive environmental standards of any U.S. trade agreement.
The goal is to ensure that we and our trading partners are engaged in fair competition that does not suppress environmental protection. The United States has been, and remains, the leader in rewriting trade rules so that they move us toward this model of fair competition.
According to this line of thinking, environmental issues are either irrelevant, or tangentially related, to economics or trade.  It doesn’t have to be this way.
Today I am speaking at @amprog to talk about the importance of using trade policy to address one of the biggest challenges we face: climate change.
During my confirmation hearing, I made clear that protecting our planet would be a top priority.
For many decades, efforts to integrate environmental concerns through trade agreements were largely dismissed as wrongheaded, bleeding heart attempts to incorporate “social issues” in the trading system.
I stressed the need for extraordinary leadership, communication, and creativity during this extraordinary time https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2021/april/ambassador-katherine-tais-remarks-wto-virtual-conference-covid-19-vaccine-equity
This #YomHashoah is a day for somber reflection on the atrocities committed against the Jewish people. We cannot forget the consequences of antisemitism, xenophobia, and racism, and we must work constantly  to eradicate them whenever they appear.
Rep. Alcee Hastings was a fierce champion for equality from his early days as a passionate lawyer to a legislator who fought to expand economic opportunity for all. My heartfelt condolences go out to his family.
It was great to meet with Minister Anh today to discuss the importance of the U.S.-Vietnam relationship and increased bilateral dialogue under our TIFA.  I also urged Vietnam to address U.S. concerns on currency practices covered in the Section 301 investigation.
Today I met with Minister Maina of Kenya to discuss the ongoing bilateral trade relations between our two countries. Our productive conversation will pave the way for sustained dialogue about key issues in the future.
Today @POTUS proclaimed March 31 as #CesarChavezDay, and I could not agree more with his decision to honor a man of such profound importance to the United States.
He was the son of Mexican immigrants and a veteran of the @USNavy who used the power of collective action to address some of the most pressing issues of his time: rising economic inequality and racial injustice.
As we grapple with the same topics today, it is important that we honor the legacies of those who laid the groundwork for our plans to Build Back Better. Today I honor the memory of Chávez.
Transgender and non-binary Americans have struggled to overcome decades of discrimination and violence in pursuit of full equality.
On #TransgenderDayofVisibility, we stand with the transgender community and recommit to fighting for their right to live freely and openly in our society.
I had a productive meeting with @pekcan today. We discussed ways to re-establish communication between my office and the Turkish Ministry of Trade. I look forward to working with her to address key U.S.-Turkish issues.
We had a great first meeting of the #G7 trade ministers and the @WTO's @NOIwealatoday. We'll work together to advance free and fair trade that benefits workers, businesses and consumers.
I was pleased to meet today with @the_dti Minister Ebrahim Patel. We agreed to explore new opportunities for bilateral engagement and I look forward to working together to enhance the U.S.-South African trade relationship over the long run.
USTR will suspend all U.S. trade engagement with Burma under the 2013 Trade and Investment Framework Agreement. We support the people of Burma's efforts to restore a democratically elected government, which has been the foundation of Burma’s economic growth and reform.
We strongly condemn the Burmese security forces’ brutal violence against civilians. The killing of peaceful protestors, students, workers, labor leaders, medics, and children has shocked the conscience of the international community.
These actions are a direct assault on the country’s transition to democracy and the efforts of the Burmese people to achieve a peaceful and prosperous future.”
Another great day of virtual meetings with our international trading partners.
Then I met with Minister @PiyushGoyal. We agreed to revitalize engagement through the U.S.-India Trade Policy Forum, find ways to expand our trade relationship, and cooperate on a broad set of issues.
I ended the day by talking to @DanTehanWannon about the strong US-Australian trade relationship, our shared objectives for @WTO reform, and Indo-Pacific collaboration, including through @APEC
I met with @peteraltmaier this morning about the important trade relationship between the US and Germany. We agreed on several shared objectives and I’m looking forward to working closely with him on key issues going forward.
I was pleased to meet with @BrunoLeMaire about the trade and investment relationship with our oldest ally. We agreed to work on several issues, including forced labor, climate change and the unfair trade practices of non-market economies like China.
With @franckriester, we also discussed a timely resolution of the dispute related to large civil aircraft subsidies and the global oversupply of steel and aluminum. I look forward to many future conversations and strengthening our relationship
I just wrapped up a great first meeting with @tatclouthier. Our countries have such an important relationship. I look forward to working with her to fully implement #USMCA and strengthen our trading ties.
It was great to have the first of many conversations with @MOTIEKoreaEng Minister Yoo today about our important trade and economic relationship with South Korea.
I was pleased to meet with @METI_JPN Trade Minister Kajiyama about our common interests in the region and beyond, including the importance joint efforts to fight unfair trade practices through stronger cooperation.
I was pleased to speak with @MofaJapan_en Minister Motegi about our shared interests in areas from digital trade to @WTO reform. I look forward to regular engagement about ways to strengthen our trade and economic ties.
It was great to meet with @NOIweala today and I look forward to working together closely to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and reform the @WTO to ensure it meets the needs of 21st century trade.
I just spoke with @VDombrovskis about our shared priorities and strengthening the relationship between the U.S and the E.U. We will work to address shared concerns about climate change, forced labor and non-market economies.
I was pleased to speak with @trussliz about the special relationship and strong trade ties between the U.S. and the U.K.
I just held my first virtual meeting with @mary_ng. Our countries have a close relationship and we’re excited to work together on a range of issues to strengthen the global economy.
Words matter. Thank you @POTUS for your leadership at this critical moment for the #AAPI community
As the daughter of immigrants, a wife, a sister and an American, the awful violence in Atlanta is personal. Sadly, this isn’t a unique moment in history - we’ve seen this resentment and bigotry before.
The recent spike in crimes and victimization targeted at the #AAPI community is deeply troubling and it must stop. We all have a responsibility to call it out and stamp it out #StopAAPIHate
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Vietnam Minister of Industry and Trade Tran Tuan Anh.
Ambassador Tai and Minister Anh discussed the importance of the U.S.-Vietnam bilateral trade and investment relationship. They committed to increased collaboration bilaterally and regionally through the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).  Ambassador Tai highlighted the Biden Administration’s concerns about currency practices covered in the ongoing Section 301 investigation.  The ministers also discussed U.S. concerns on illegal timber practices, digital trade and agriculture.  Ambassador Tai and Minister Anh looked forward to holding a meeting later this year under the bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement to assess progress made in strengthening the trade relationship and in resolving outstanding bilateral issues.  They agreed to sustained dialogue in the future.
WASHINGTON – United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai today met virtually with Cabinet Secretary Betty Maina, the Kenyan Minister of Industrialization, Trade, and Enterprise Development.
Ambassador Tai and Minister Maina discussed the importance of the U.S.-Kenya relationship and strengthening ties between both countries. They also discussed the bilateral trade negotiations conducted under the previous administration. Ambassador Tai highlighted her ongoing review of the negotiations to ensure that any agreement aligns with the Biden-Harris administration’s Build Back Better agenda. Ambassador Tai and Minister Maina agreed on the shared priority of supporting African integration and maintaining a sustained dialogue about key issues.










