美国上一任贸易代表莱特希泽在任期间（2017.5.15-2021.1.20）文档整理

2017

Robert E. Lighthizer Sworn In As United States Trade Representative
05/15/2017
Washington, D.C. - Today, Robert E. Lighthizer was sworn in as the 18th United States Trade Representative (USTR). At a ceremony at the White House, Vice President Mike Pence presided over Ambassador Lighthizer's swearing in, which completes the President's cabinet.
"President Donald Trump made a promise to the American people to fight for trade that puts America first," said Vice President Pence. "In choosing Robert Lighthizer as U.S. Trade Representative, President Trump is keeping his promise to put America first."
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative is responsible for developing and coordinating U.S. international trade, commodity, and direct investment policy, and overseeing negotiations with other countries.
"I'm honored for the opportunity to serve President Trump and Vice President Pence by working for fair and free trade that benefits all Americans," said Ambassador Lighthizer. "By expanding export market access through negotiating good trade deals and enforcing U.S. trade laws, we can raise wages and help level the playing field for American workers, farmers, ranchers, and job-creators."
An experienced trade negotiator and litigator, Ambassador Lighthizer brings a history of tough U.S. trade enforcement and a record of standing up for American workers, farmers, manufacturers, and businesses.
At the time he was chosen by President Trump to serve as USTR, Ambassador Lighthizer was a partner at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP (Skadden), where he practiced international trade law for over 30 years. His work there on behalf of American workers and businesses in the heavy manufacturing, agricultural, high-tech, and financial services industries opened markets to U.S. exports and defended U.S. industries from unfair trade practices. He was lead counsel for scores of trade enforcement cases and was a well-known advocate for the type of "America First" trade policies supported by President Trump.
Before joining Skadden, Ambassador Lighthizer served as Deputy USTR for President Ronald Reagan. During his tenure, Ambassador Lighthizer negotiated over two dozen bilateral international agreements, including agreements on steel, automobiles, and agricultural products. As Deputy USTR, he also served as Vice Chairman of the Board of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
Prior to becoming Deputy USTR, Ambassador Lighthizer was Chief of Staff of the United States Senate Committee on Finance for Chairman Bob Dole. In this position, he was a key player in enacting the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, which was the most significant tax reform in decades, as well as the other basic elements of the Reagan economic program.
Ambassador Lighthizer earned a Bachelor's degree at Georgetown University and his Juris Doctor from Georgetown University Law Center. He is a native of Ashtabula, Ohio and has two children.
United States and Bangladesh Hold 3rd Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum Agreement Council Meeting
05/17/2017
Dhaka, Bangladesh – The United States-Bangladesh Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum (TICFA) Council held its third meeting on May 17, 2017 in Dhaka, Bangladesh to promote expanded bilateral trade and investment in goods and services. The meeting was co-chaired by Shubhashish Bose, Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Government of Bangladesh and Mark Linscott, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative.
During the meeting, Bangladesh and the United States deliberated intensively on issues of mutual interest covered under the TICFA. Technical trade discussions focused on ease of doing business, market access and tariff reforms, intellectual property, digital economy, regional connectivity, energy and infrastructure development, transparency in government procurement, and labor.
Both governments pledged their commitment to deepen their engagement and increase their trade and economic ties.  The United States particularly noted its interest in addressing specific market access barriers to trade and concerns on overall labor reform, expressing its hope for the speedy resolution of pending cases stemming from the labor unrest in Ashulia last year. 
Bangladesh and the United States had $6.8 billion (two-way) goods trade during 2016. 








USTR: Trump Administration Announces Intent to Renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement
05/18/2017
Washington, D.C. – Today, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer notified Congress that President Trump intends to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Through these negotiations, the United States seeks to support higher-paying jobs in the United States and to grow the U.S. economy by improving U.S. opportunities to trade with Canada and Mexico.
In the letter to Congress, Ambassador Lighthizer expresses the Trump Administration’s commitment to concluding the negotiations with timely and substantive results for U.S. consumers, businesses, farmers, ranchers, and workers.  These goals will be pursued consistent with U.S. priorities and the negotiating objectives established by Congress in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA). Negotiations will begin no earlier than August 16, 2017.
“Today, President Trump fulfilled one of his key promises to the American people. For years, politicians have called for the renegotiation of this agreement, but President Trump is the first to follow through with that promise,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “USTR will now continue consultations with Congress and American stakeholders to create an agreement that advances the interests of America’s workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.”  
USTR will publish a notice in the Federal Register requesting public input on the direction, focus, and content of the North American Free Trade Agreement negotiations. 
President Trump announced the United States’ intention to engage in negotiations related to NAFTA on February 2, 2017. Since then, USTR has begun consultations with committees of jurisdiction in Congress and advisory committees, as outlined by TPA. 
Text of USTR Letters to Congressional Leadership


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on APEC Trade Meeting
05/21/2017
Reaffirms U.S. Commitment to Bilateral Engagement for Fair and Free Trade in the Region
Hanoi, Viet Nam -- United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer attended the 23rd Ministers Responsible for Trade (MRT) meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in Hanoi, Viet Nam, May 20-21. The meeting marks Ambassador Lighthizer’s first international trip as U.S. Trade Representative.
With Viet Nam as the 2017 APEC host economy, the APEC meeting topics included efforts to facilitate digital trade in the region, expand services markets, strengthen Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protections, and eliminate barriers to agriculture and food trade.
“It was important to me to come to APEC first and foremost to reaffirm the President’s strong commitment to promoting bilateral free and fair trade throughout the Asia-Pacific region,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “APEC provides a great opportunity to focus energy on the barriers to its stated objective of free and open trade – a goal that cannot be met without tackling trade-distorting measures that have led to massive U.S. trade imbalances in the region. I look forward to working with our trade partners to expand U.S. export market access and address persistent unfair trade practices.”
In the margins of the MRT meetings, Ambassador Lighthizer met trade ministers of APEC member economies, including through formal bilateral meetings with the following economies: Canada, Japan, Mexico, Viet Nam, China, and Australia.
Background:
The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is the premier economic forum in the Asia Pacific region. The United States is a founding member of APEC, which now consists of 21 member economies.
The Asia Pacific region is one of the most dynamic economic regions in the world.  U.S. goods and services trade with APEC economies totaled $2.7 trillion in 2015 (latest data available).  The U.S. goods trade deficit, however, with APEC economies was $576 billion in 2016. 
APEC provides an opportunity for the U.S. to address this trade deficit by engaging trade partners to expand market access for U.S. exports and addressing unfair trade practices.


Conaway, Peterson Host Agriculture Committee Roundtable with Sec. Perdue and Amb. Lighthizer on Trade
05/24/2017
Washington, D.C. – Today, House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) and Ranking Member Collin Peterson (MN-7) joined U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Sec. Sonny Perdue and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer along with other members of the committee in an executive roundtable on U.S. agricultural trade policy. Following the roundtable, Chairman Conaway, Ranking Member Peterson, Sec. Perdue and Amb. Lighthizer released the below remarks:
“We appreciated the opportunity to have Amb. Lighthizer and Sec. Perdue meet with the committee today to underscore the critical importance of trade to the U.S. agricultural economy. Given that agriculture is one of the few areas where the U.S. enjoys a positive balance of trade, we’re eager to work together to continue building on our hard-fought gains. It was also encouraging to hear Amb. Lighthizer express the importance of holding our trading partners accountable, and I look forward to working with him and Sec. Perdue to secure even better deals for America’s farmers, ranchers and foresters,” said Chairman Conaway.
“Today’s roundtable was an opportunity for the committee to hear directly from both Sec. Perdue and Amb. Lighthizer to gain a better understanding of the administration’s plans for agriculture trade. We need to ensure that agriculture is treated fairly in any future trade deals. I take both Sec. Perdue and Amb. Lighthizer at their word that any trade deals will only expand agriculture exports and not take them backward,” said Ranking Member Peterson.
“With the global population expected to hit nine billion by 2050, the U.S. is going to have a major role in feeding a growing and hungry world. At USDA, we like to tell our farmers, ranchers, foresters, and producers: You grow it, and we’ll sell it. Trade is going to be such an important part of American agriculture, we created an undersecretary for trade at the USDA. Working with President Trump, Commerce Sec. Wilbur Ross, Amb. Lighthizer, and our leadership on Capitol Hill, we will help open up new markets and expand existing ones. Because where American agricultural products can compete on a level playing field, they will succeed and lead the way,” said Sec. Perdue.
“I’m honored to meet with the members of the House Agriculture Committee and Sec. Perdue today to further our discussions about protecting and expanding U.S. agricultural exports around the world. America’s farmers and ranchers are second to none, and they have my commitment to fight unfair trade practices and grow more export opportunities. From family farms to food and beverage manufacturing jobs, truly free and fair agricultural trade raises wages and fuels our economy, and I look forward to continuing the conversation and building upon our discussions today,” said Amb. Lighthizer.

Readout of USTR Robert Lighthizer’s Bilateral Meetings with Vietnam
05/30/2017
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer this afternoon met with Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc to discuss the U.S.-Vietnam trade relationship and outstanding bilateral trade issues.
The two leaders also discussed the challenges presented by the growth in the U.S. trade deficit with Vietnam and the potential for further improvements in the trade relationship, including through initiatives under the U.S.-Vietnam Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA). 
Ambassador Lighthizer today also met with Vietnamese Minister of Industry and Trade Tran Tuan Anh on these issues, as well as on the importance of ensuring concrete progress during upcoming TIFA working group meetings on agriculture, digital trade, goods, intellectual property, and labor. 


Readout of USTR Robert Lighthizer's Meeting with the WTO Director General
06/01/2017
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer this morning welcomed World Trade Organization Director-General Roberto Azevêdo for a meeting to discuss the important role of the WTO in the global economy. Ambassador Lighthizer reaffirmed his support for improving the WTO and his commitment to working closely with U.S. trading partners to increase the WTO's ability to promote free and fair trade.
Ambassador Lighthizer communicated his goal of building a strong working relationship with Director-General Azevêdo and the WTO member economies, and he looks forward to engaging them in further discussion next week in the margins of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Ministerial Council Meeting in Paris.     


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the President’s Paris Accord Decision
06/01/2017
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement in response to the President’s decision on the Paris climate accord:                                                                                                                  
“Today the President made a bold decision to protect American jobs from harmful consequences under the Paris climate accord. While giving other major economies a pass, the Paris accord would put American workers and businesses at an unfair disadvantage, undercutting American competitiveness in the global economy.         
“The Paris accord represents another unfair trade barrier that America cannot afford. I applaud the President’s leadership regarding the Paris accord, and I’m honored to stand with him in advancing his trade agenda that puts American workers and job-creators first.”   


Readout of USTR Robert Lighthizer's Meeting with the European Union Commissioner
06/07/2017
Paris – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) releases the following readout of USTR Robert Lighthizer’s first meeting with European Union (EU) Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, which took place in the margins of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Ministerial Council Meeting: 
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and EU Commissioner Cecilia Malmström held a cordial first meeting while attending the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting in Paris. They underscored their shared interest for strengthening the U.S.-EU trade and economic relationship and addressing mutual global trade concerns. 
Topics of discussion included U.S.-EU trade, expanding export opportunities, and WTO Ministerial Meeting preparations. Ambassador Lighthizer expressed his commitment to engaging all U.S. trade partners in advancing free and fair trade for level playing fields in the global economy. 


United States Statement on Trade for the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting
06/08/2017
Paris – The United States released the following statement on trade policy in response to the Chair’s Statement and alongside the Consensus Statement of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Ministerial Council Meeting: 
"The United States believes that free and fair trade and international investment can lead to economic growth and job creation.  At the same time, we acknowledge that trade has not always worked to the benefit of everyone, given that unfair trade practices on the part of some countries disadvantage workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses in global markets and can result in large, persistent trade imbalances.  
“We stress the importance of achieving access to markets through the elimination of barriers and unfair trading practices.  Accordingly, we support the removal of trade-distorting practices such as dumping, discriminatory non-tariff barriers, forced technology transfers, non-economic capacity, subsidies and other support by governments and government-controlled or -owned institutions that distort markets, so as to foster a truly level playing field.  We acknowledge the right to use World Trade Organization (WTO)-consistent trade remedies to tackle such practices and enforce our rights. 
“The United States recognizes the importance of international trading systems, including WTO-consistent trade agreements.  We also commit to working with other Members to improve the functioning of the WTO, to ensure full and transparent implementation and effective and timely enforcement of the WTO agreements as negotiated and to make the utmost efforts to achieve a successful 11th WTO Ministerial Conference." 


WTO Panel Rejects EU Claims Alleging WTO-Inconsistent U.S. Subsidies for Boeing
06/09/2017
In Major Win for the United States, WTO Compliance Panel Rejects 28 of 29 EU Claims                                      
 
Washington, D.C. – The World Trade Organization (WTO) today issued a compliance panel report rejecting almost all claims by the European Union (EU) that U.S. subsidies to Boeing harmed Airbus’s ability to sell large civil aircraft.  The EU challenged 29 U.S. state and federal programs that allegedly conferred $10.4 billion over six years in subsidies to Boeing, but the panel found that 28 of the 29 programs were consistent with WTO rules. 
The panel found only one state-level program, which had an average value of $100-110 million in the 2013-2015 period, to be contrary to WTO rules.  The United States disagrees and plans to appeal this limited finding. 
The findings today are in sharp contrast to another panel’s report last year in the United States’ dispute concerning the EU’s “launch aid” and other subsidies to Airbus.  In September of 2016, that WTO panel found that the EU failed to remove existing WTO-inconsistent subsidies and had further breached WTO rules by giving Airbus billions of dollars in additional subsidies, which continue to cause tens of billions of dollars in harm to Boeing.  
“For years, European governments have tried to justify their massive subsidization of Airbus by falsely claiming a need to offset U.S. subsidies to Boeing,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “The WTO report confirms what we have always said: the United States does not provide subsidies even remotely comparable to the uniquely large and uniquely harmful EU subsidies to Airbus. It is time for the EU to stop making excuses and instead to join us in negotiating a settlement to remove all WTO-inconsistent subsidies so that our world-class aircraft manufacturers can compete on a level playing field.”
Under WTO rules, the panel report will be adopted if either party so requests within 60 days of the report’s circulation, or either party may appeal the report before it is adopted.  
Background 
After many years of seeking unsuccessfully to convince the EU and four of its member States (France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom) to cease its subsidization of Airbus, in 2004 the United States brought a WTO challenge to EU subsidies.  The EU responded by challenging what it claimed were even larger subsidies to Boeing by the United States.  
Two separate WTO panels addressed the claims brought by the United States and the EU, respectively. The two processes resulted in two very different sets of WTO findings and subsequent respondent actions.   
The United States’ Claims Against the EU 
In 2011, the WTO found that the EU provided Airbus $17 billion in subsidized financing from 1968 to 2006, and that European “launch aid” subsidies breached WTO rules because they were instrumental in permitting Airbus to launch every model of its large civil aircraft, causing Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and to lose market share throughout the world.  
In response, the EU removed two minor subsidies, but left most of them unchanged.  The EU also granted Airbus more than $5 billion in new subsidized “launch aid” financing for the A350 XWB. 
The United States filed a complaint in March 2012 alleging that the EU not only had failed to comply with the WTO’s findings but had further breached WTO rules through the new subsidized financing for the A350 XWB.  
The WTO established a compliance panel to evaluate that question, leading to findings issued in September 2016 that the EU had not taken any affirmative steps to withdraw its earlier subsidies and had granted new subsidies that caused tens of billions of dollars of adverse effects to Boeing, bringing the total of subsidized financing of Airbus to $22 billion.  The EU appealed that compliance panel report; the matter is still pending before the WTO Appellate Body. 
The EU’s Claims Against the United States 
The report issued today has its origins in the EU’s original 2004 case alleging the U.S. provided unlawful subsidies to Boeing.  In that case, the WTO found that the United States provided Boeing with $3.2-4.3 billion in subsidized research and development funding and income tax benefits, with far more limited market effects than the EU’s subsidies to Airbus. 
In response to the WTO’s findings, the United States modified the research and development funding and revoked the income tax benefit to remove any adverse effects to the EU.  The EU then filed a complaint in October 2012 alleging that the United States failed to comply with the findings against it.  The WTO established a compliance panel to evaluate that question, resulting in the report issued today which rejects 28 of 29 EU claims. 


U.S., China Finalize Details to Send U.S. Beef to China
06/12/2017
Washington, DC – As part of the U.S.-China 100-Day Action plan announced on May 11, 2017 by U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and Secretary of the Treasury Steven T. Mnuchin, the Trump Administration today has taken important steps toward commercial shipment of U.S. beef and beef products to China for the first time since 2003.  These shipments are results of the U.S.-China Comprehensive Economic Dialogue co-chaired by Secretary Ross and Secretary Mnuchin for the United States and Vice Premier Wang Yang for China.  Accordingly, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has reached agreement with Chinese officials on final details of a protocol to allow the U.S. to begin the beef exports to China.  Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue today announced the posting of technical documents related to the beginning of shipments.
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue issued the following statement:
“Today is a great day for the United States and in particular for our cattle producers, who will be regaining access to an enormous market with an ever-expanding middle class.  Since he was elected, President Trump has brought momentum, optimism, and results to American agriculture families that we haven’t seen in years and this agreement is a great example.  I commend the hard work of Secretary Ross, Secretary Mnuchin, Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, and our USDA representatives.  Without their dedication and persistence, this would have not been possible.  I have no doubt that as soon as the Chinese people get a taste of American beef they’ll want more of it.”
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross issued the following statement:
“President Trump is doing more to improve the U.S.-China relationship than any president in decades, and this final beef protocol agreement represents even more concrete progress. As we clear away long-standing issues like this one, focusing on near-term, verifiable deliverables, we are building a sound foundation for further discussions.  I look forward to engaging with our Chinese counterparts as we address more complex issues to the benefit of both our nations.”
Secretary of the Treasury Steven T. Mnuchin issued the following statement:
"The ‎reopening of China's market to American beef is an example of the results-oriented approach this Administration has taken in our engagement with China. We will continue to work toward a more fair and balanced economic relationship with China by expanding opportunities for U.S. workers and businesses." 
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement:
"I welcome China taking this important step to start allowing U.S. beef imports after shutting them out over 13 years ago.  The President's firm commitment to fair trade that benefits the United States has made this new U.S. beef export opportunity possible.  I encourage China and all countries to base their requirements on international standards and science. America's ranchers are the best producers of beef in the global economy, and they can compete and succeed wherever there is a level playing field."
Background:
The USDA Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has posted the requirements for its Export Verification program for U.S. establishments shipping to China, which will enable packers to apply for approval to export to China.  The USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) has also updated its online Export Library specifying China’s requirements for certifying U.S. beef being shipped there.
China has emerged as a major beef buyer in recent years, with imports increasing from $275 million in 2012 to $2.5 billion in 2016. However, the United States has been banned from China's market since 2003. The United States is the world’s largest beef producer and was the world’s fourth-largest exporter, with global sales of more than $5.4 billion in 2016.  Until the ban took effect, the U.S. was China’s largest supplier of imported beef, providing 70 percent of their total intake.


USTR Extends Public Comment Period For NAFTA Renegotiation Objectives
06/13/2017
Due to high interest and to ensure all interested participants have the opportunity to comment, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative is extending the public comment period for “Negotiating Objectives Regarding Modernization of NAFTA with Canada and Mexico” until June 14, 2017, at 11:59 PM ET.
In order to ensure the timely receipt and consideration of comments, USTR strongly encourages commenters to make online submissions, using the www.Regulations.gov website. To submit comments via www.Regulations.gov, enter docket number USTR-2017-0006 on the home page search field and then select the listing associated with this docket. For comment submission criteria, click here.
USTR receives and reviews all comment submissions processed by Regulations.gov, a public comment platform administered independently from USTR and used by federal government agencies of all kinds. Users with questions regarding the site or technical issues should contact Regulations.gov.


United States and Indonesia Agree to Step Up Work to Expand Trade
06/14/2017
WASHINGTON, DC – The United States met with Indonesia on June 12-13 under their Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), agreeing on next steps for expeditiously resolving bilateral issues and further building their trade relations.  
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer welcomed the shared commitment to intensify engagement under the TIFA.  In a concluding meeting with Indonesian Investment Board Chairman Tom Lembong, Ambassador Lighthizer emphasized the Trump Administration’s interest in enhancing ties with countries in the Asia-Pacific region, the importance of addressing outstanding trade issues in the next few months, and the priority of lowering the bilateral trade deficit, the United States’ 15th largest.  
During the TIFA meetings, the U.S. side outlined the Trump Administration’s trade agenda and focus on making concrete progress on agriculture, high-technology products, digital services, financial services, and other issues.  The two countries agreed on follow-up actions on these issues and discussed a work plan for addressing U.S. intellectual property concerns, recognizing the urgency of progress in this area given Indonesia’s listing on USTR’s Special 301 Priority Watch List.  
The United States and Indonesia agreed to conduct detailed and regular discussions under the TIFA in order to maintain momentum in their dialogue and ensure continued progress.  They also exchanged views on regional and global trade developments, including related to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and other regional and multilateral trade arrangements.  In addition, both U.S. and Indonesian officials held meetings with stakeholders from both countries to hear directly from them about key trade issues of concern.  
The interagency teams for the TIFA were led by Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Southeast Asia and the Pacific Barbara Weisel and Ministry of Trade Director General for International Trade Negotiations Iman Pambagyo. Also included for the United States were officials from: the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative; the U.S. Departments of State, Agriculture, Commerce, and Health and Human Services; the Environmental Protection Agency; and the U.S. International Trade Commission. For Indonesia, officials were from the Ministries of Trade, Foreign Affairs, Justice and Human Rights, Industry, Marine and Fisheries, Finance, as well as the Bank of Indonesia and the Investment Coordinating Board.  
Background 
The United States had a $13.2 billion trade deficit with Indonesia in 2016.  Two-way goods trade between them totaled $25 billion in 2016, with U.S. goods exports to Indonesia almost doubling in the last decade to $6 billion in 2016, and goods imports totaling $19.2 billion.  U.S. services exports to Indonesia have increased more than 70 percent in the last decade and now total $2.5 billion. Services imports from Indonesia amounted to $780 million in 2015 (latest available data).  In 2016, Indonesia was the United States' 35th largest goods export market.              


Ambassador Robert Lighthizer Announces USTR Senior Staff
06/15/2017
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced the senior staff of his office: 
Jamieson Greer: Chief of Staff. Prior to joining USTR, Greer was Of Counsel in the International Trade and National Security practice group at Kirkland & Ellis, LLP, and before that, he practiced law for several years in the International Trade Group at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. He also served on active duty in the U.S. Air Force Judge Advocate General’s Corps for several years. Greer earned his law degree from the University of Virginia School of Law, a joint master’s degree in international business law from l’Insitut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po) and l’Université de Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne, and a Bachelor of Arts in International Studies from Brigham Young University. 
Payne Griffin: Deputy Chief of Staff.  Before coming to USTR, Griffin worked on Capitol Hill, advising then-Senator Jeff Sessions on trade policy and other financial issues. During this time, he also served as the Deputy Lead on Trade Policy Implementation for President Trump’s transition team where he helped develop policy goals and priorities for the future Administration. Prior to his time with Senator Sessions, Griffin worked for Congressman Spencer Bachus from Alabama’s 6th district. Griffin received his bachelor’s degree from American University, and studied the General Course at the London School of Economics. 
Pamela Marcus: Deputy Chief of Staff – Operations. Before joining USTR, Marcus was Manager of the International Trade Group at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP for 25 years.  Marcus also previously worked at McDonnell Douglas in various management positions and at Bell & Co. as a management consultant.  She earned her bachelor’s degree from University of Maryland and Masters of Business Administration from Pepperdine University.                          
Stephen Vaughn: General Counsel. Prior to coming to USTR, Vaughn was a Partner in the International Trade Group at King & Spalding LLP, and before that, he was part of the International Trade Group at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher, and Flom LLP. He has extensive experience litigating complex cases involving antidumping, countervailing duties, and safeguards before numerous agencies and tribunals, including the U.S. International Trade Commission, the U.S. Court of International Trade, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and the World Trade Organization. He earned his law degree from Yale University and Bachelor of Arts degree from Vanderbilt University.  
Timothy Reif: Senior Advisor. Under the new administration, Reif is serving as Senior Advisor to the U.S. Trade Representative. He advises the U.S. Trade Representative and other senior Administration officials on all global compliance, investment and regulatory matters, as well as trade and investment negotiations.  Prior to his appointment as USTR General Counsel in 2009, Reif served as Chief International Trade Counsel for the Committee on Ways and Means in the U.S. House of Representatives, Special Trade Counsel in private law practice, and Associate General Counsel at USTR.  Reif received his Juris Doctor from Columbia Law School and his Master of Public Affairs and Bachelor degrees from Princeton University.  
Christopher Jackson: Assistant USTR for Congressional Affairs. Prior to coming to USTR, Jackson served as Counsel to then-Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama.  There, Jackson advised Senator Sessions on trade, budget, and banking policy.  Prior to his time in the Sessions office Jackson served as an assistant in the Office of Management and Budget under the leadership of Director Jim Nussle, where he worked on both the budget and management side of the Office. He then went on to serve as a Legislative Assistant in the OMB Office of Legislative Affairs. Jackson earned his law degree from The William and Mary School of Law and Bachelor of Arts degree from The George Washington University. 
Cameron Bishop: Deputy Assistant USTR for Congressional Affairs. Prior to joining USTR, Bishop spent the previous seven years working in the United States House of Representatives. Most recently, Bishop served as Legislative Director for Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) and before that, as Legislative Director for Congressman Rick Allen (GA-12). Bishop started his congressional career in Congressman Mike Rogers' (AL-03) office where he spent five years, the majority of which as Legislative Assistant. Before moving to Washington, Bishop worked for a Trade Association in Atlanta. Bishop is a native of Dunwoody, GA and a graduate of the University of Georgia with a double-major. 
Emily Davis: Deputy Assistant USTR for Public & Media Affairs. Davis brings 12 years of policy and political communications experience with her to USTR. She previously worked as the Communications Director of American Action Network/Congressional Leadership Fund. Her prior work also includes senior communications roles with the George Allen for U.S. Senate campaign, the National Republican Congressional Committee, and U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions. Davis received her Bachelor of Arts in English degree from Dallas Baptist University. 


USTR Robert Lighthizer Participates In Inaugural Rural Prosperity Task Force Meeting
06/15/2017
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today participated in the inaugural meeting of the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity, as established by President Trump’s Executive Order. 
Chaired by Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, the interagency task force meeting included Secretaries and officials from over 20 cabinet agencies and executive branch offices. 
“Rural America has no greater advocate than President Trump, and I’m honored to work with agencies across the government to implement his vision for prosperity,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Trade and innovation are essential to U.S. agriculture and rural prosperity, with nearly 20 percent of farm income derived from exports. Yet we know that we can do better for rural America, as our producers face a multitude of trade barriers to the use of innovative technologies and science-based standards. USTR is dedicated to negotiating and enforcing trade deals with standards based on science to ensure the United States remains the world leader in innovation and a global powerhouse in agricultural trade.” 
Task force objectives include advancing the adoption of innovations and technology for agricultural production; ensuring that policies for food safety are based on science; and encouraging the production, export, and use of domestically-produced agricultural products. 
For more information on the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity, click here. 


Readout of USTR Robert Lighthizer's Meeting with New Zealand Trade Minister Todd McClay
06/16/2017
Washington, DC - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer this morning welcomed New Zealand Trade Minister Todd McClay for a meeting on the two countries' strong trade relationship. Ambassador Lighthizer reiterated the United States' commitment to continued engagement in the Pacific region for free and fair trade with all U.S. trading partners.
Along with the U.S.-New Zealand Trade and Investment Framework Agreement, he highlighted opportunities to further deepen the trade partnership and to coordinate on solutions to global dairy market challenges.
Ambassador Lighthizer underscored that U.S. exporters are deeply committed to the New Zealand economy, where the United States has maintained steady exports. He looks forward to building an even stronger, mutually-beneficial trade relationship and working together to ensure fair, transparent access to markets around the world.


Joint Release by the UK International Trade Secretary, Dr. Liam Fox and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer
06/19/2017
The International Trade Secretary, Dr. Liam Fox, met the U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today (Monday 19 June) to discuss the two countries' strong bilateral trade relationship.
During the meeting, both Ministers committed to strengthen economic links between the UK and U.S., including a discussion about the possibility of laying the groundwork for a potential new trade agreement soon after Brexit. 
The visit marks the first international trip for the UK International Trade Secretary, Dr. Liam Fox, since the UK General Election.
International Trade Secretary, Dr. Liam Fox said:
"Our work as an international economic department has never been more critical and I am delighted to be making my first visit back as International Trade Secretary to the US, which is our largest single trading partner, accounting for a fifth of all exports.
"Our valuable talks underlined the shared interest in forging a closer trade and economic relationship including making progress on policy coordination, regulatory issues and expanding trade and investment between our economies.  
"As our largest single trading partner, we have a strong foundation to build on as we start preparation on joint work to explore a future ambitious trade agreement once the UK has left the EU.”
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said:
"It's a pleasure to welcome Secretary of State Fox to the United States, as we meet for the first time to build an even stronger relationship between our two countries. As the United States' fifth largest export market, the United Kingdom is an invaluable trading partner. 
"As UK negotiations with the European Union begin, I look forward to working with Dr. Fox and the United States Congress to lay the groundwork for our future trade relationship, including exploring the possibility of a new U.S.-UK trade agreement. In the meantime, the United States is committed to continuing discussions for improving trade and investment and coordinating on addressing global excess capacity issues."
Background:
Trade between the two countries is already worth about $230 billion a year, the U.S. is the single biggest source of inward investment into the UK, and together there is around $1 trillion invested in each other's economies. 


USTR Announces AGOA Out-of-Cycle Review for Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda
06/20/2017
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the initiation of an out-of-cycle review of the eligibility of Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda to receive benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). 
The launch of the review is in response to a petition filed by the Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association (SMART), which asserts that a March 2016 decision by the East African Community, which includes Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, to phase in a ban on imports of used clothing and footwear is imposing significant economic hardship on the U.S. used clothing industry.
Through the out-of-cycle review, USTR and trade-related agencies will assess the allegations contained within the SMART petition and review whether Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda are adhering to AGOA’s eligibility requirements. 
A public hearing will take place July 13, 2017 in Washington, DC.  A Federal Register notice containing information related to this review is available at www.regulations.gov under docket number USTR-2017-0008.
Background:
Signed into law in 2000, the African Growth and Opportunity Act promotes trade and investment in sub-Saharan Africa, including through substantial trade preferences.
In order to qualify for AGOA trade benefits, partner countries must meet certain statutory eligibility requirements, including making continual progress toward establishing market-based economies, the rule of law, political pluralism, and elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment, among others.
U.S. AGOA imports from Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda totaled $43 million in 2016, up from $33 million in 2015.  U.S. exports to Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda totaled $281 million in 2016, up from $257 million in 2015.


Public Hearings on the Renegotiation of NAFTA
06/27/2017
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold public hearings June 27-29, 2017 regarding the upcoming negotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
The hearings will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The public hearings follow USTR’s 90-day notification to Congress on May 18, 2017 regarding intent to renegotiate NAFTA as well as USTR’s Federal Register notice published May 23, 2017 requesting public comment.
The public hearings will be held at the following times:
Tuesday, June 27, 2017 from 8:45 AM – 8 PM EDT
Wednesday, June 28, 2017 from 9 AM – 6:30 PM EDT
Thursday, June 29, 2017 from 10 AM – 3 PM EDT


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on Alan Wolff, New WTO Deputy Director General
06/27/2017
Washington, DC – Today U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement on the selection of Ambassador Alan Wm. Wolff as Deputy Director General of the World Trade Organization. 
“I would like to congratulate Alan Wolff on his selection as the new WTO Deputy Director General. Alan is one of the leading experts on international trade, spending his distinguished career in and out of government shaping U.S. trade policy.  
“I’ve had the privilege of knowing and working with Alan for many years, and I have no doubt that he will ably serve the WTO. I look forward to working with him to improve the WTO and to promote truly free and fair trade around the globe.  
“I would like to thank David Shark for his dedicated service as a Deputy Director General at the WTO these past four years. He demonstrated the same exemplary leadership and trade expertise that he for many years provided at USTR. He has my gratitude for his remarkable service.” 


USTR Announces New Trade Preference Program Enforcement Effort
06/29/2017
GSP Annual Review Also Modifies List of GSP-Eligible Products to Include Travel Goods
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) announced today the outcome of the Trump Administration’s Annual Review under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP).  Annual Review outcomes include the launch of a self-initiated country practice review of Bolivia’s compliance with the GSP eligibility criteria related to child labor and changes to the list of products eligible for GSP treatment.
“The Trump Administration is committed to vigorously enforcing the eligibility criteria of our trade preference programs,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Trade under GSP provides strong incentives for developing countries to make market-oriented reforms and provide greater access for American goods and services. The actions announced today are aimed at strengthening our trade enforcement efforts and supporting U.S. manufacturing.”
The Administration’s announcement on GSP will: 
 
1) Launch a self-initiated review of Bolivia’s compliance with the GSP eligibility criteria related to child labor, the first such self-initiation of a review in this century;
2) Remove certain products from the GSP program where the country is sufficiently competitive and no longer needs tariff preferences to compete in the U.S. market;
3) Add certain travel goods to the list of eligible products for all GSP countries where there is currently minimal U.S. production of these products; and 
4) Add several non-import sensitive products to GSP, all of which are used as inputs in U.S. manufacturing. 
The full results of the GSP 2016/2017 Annual Review are available here and will also be announced in the Federal Register.
Background
Under the GSP program, certain products from 120 beneficiary developing countries and territories can enter the United States duty-free.  In 2016, the total value of imports that entered the United States under GSP was $18.7 billion.  To qualify for GSP, a beneficiary country must meet eligibility criteria established by Congress, including respecting arbitral awards, combating child labor, respecting internationally recognized worker rights, providing adequate and effective intellectual property protection, and providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access. 
Self-Initiated Review of Bolivia
The United States will self-initiate a country practice review of Bolivia regarding the implementation of its commitments to eliminate the worst forms of child labor, and the steps taken to afford internationally recognized worker rights.  In 2014, the Government of Bolivia passed a law permitting child labor starting at age 10 years.  This law raises questions about consistency with GSP statutory country eligibility criteria.  The goal of this action is to review Bolivia’s child labor laws and practices to determine whether Bolivia’s current law and practices meet the GSP criteria and, if necessary, to engage with the Government to encourage steps by which Bolivia could ensure compliance. 
Travel Goods
The Trade Preference Extension Act (TPEA) of 2015 gave the President, for the first time, the authority to add certain travel and luggage goods products to GSP (including luggage, handbags, backpacks, and pocket goods) subject to the regular, petition-driven review process.  In June 2016, the previous administration added eligibility for travel goods for African and least developed GSP countries.  Members of Congress have shown a strong interest in seeing GSP access for travel goods extended to all GSP countries.  U.S. travel goods brands and retailers have indicated that this action would help them broaden their sourcing opportunities for these products.  According to the information provided in the course of USTR’s review, making travel goods GSP-eligible for all GSP beneficiaries is expected to be neutral with respect to overall U.S. import levels, and therefore also to the U.S. trade balance, though this action may shift some of the overseas production of these products from non-GSP countries to GSP countries.  
GSP Annual Review Process
As part of the GSP 2016/2017 Annual Review, an interagency committee led by USTR (the GSP Subcommittee of the Trade Policy Staff Committee) received and considered requests seeking to add or remove products from the list of those eligible for duty-free treatment under GSP and to waive product exclusions for certain countries based on statutory requirements related to competitiveness (CNLs).  The USTR-led committee holds public hearings, solicits public comments, and reviews analyses prepared by the U.S. International Trade Commission of the economic impact of product eligibility decisions on domestic industries and consumers. 


The Trump Administration Invites Public Comment for Review of Existing Trade Agreements
06/29/2017
Washington, DC – Today, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a request for public input for a performance review of all the United States’ existing international trade and investment agreements.
In an April 29, 2017 executive order, President Trump directed USTR and the Department of Commerce to submit within 180 days a report that reviews trade agreement performance, identifies trade abuses, and pursues trade remedies.
To inform this report, the Administration is committed to listening to the most important voices: the American people. Through written comments, Americans can help identify the impact of trade agreements, including any first-hand experience with unfair trade practices.
The focus for solicited public comments includes, but is not limited to, the effects of a trade agreement, partnership, or program in the following areas:
Harm to American workers, including the offshoring of factories and jobs and downward pressure on wage and income growth.
Harm of intellectual property rights, the rate of innovation, or research and development in the United States.
Unmet predictions on new jobs created, favorable trade balance effects, expanded market access, lowered trade barriers, or increased United States exports.
A Federal Register notice published today invites public comment submitted via http://www.regulations.gov, entered under docket number USTR-2017-0010. Public comments must be received by July 29, 2017 at 11:59 pm Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) and subsequently will be publicly posted at www.regulations.gov.
The findings of the performance review will help guide trade policy and negotiations for fair treatment of United States interests in trade relationships.


Readout of USTR Robert Lighthizer's Meeting with Japan Trade Minister Hiroshige Seko
06/30/2017
Washington, DC - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer this afternoon met with Japanese Minister for Economy, Trade and Industry Hiroshige Seko to discuss U.S.-Japan trade relations and cooperation against trade-distorting practices by third countries.
In their meeting, Ambassador Lighthizer stressed the importance of addressing the bilateral trade imbalance, given the very high and decades-long U.S. goods trade deficit with Japan.  He additionally underscored how both countries can effectively utilize the U.S.-Japan Economic Dialogue.
Both sides also stressed the importance of further deepening enforcement cooperation to address unfair practices utilized by third countries that are contributing to global economic imbalances.


United States and Philippines Strengthen Engagement on Trade
07/11/2017
Manila, Philippines -- The United States and the Philippines met today under their Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), and agreed to work together to foster free, fair, and balanced trade between them, including by eliminating trade barriers and promoting increased trade.  This meeting was one of a series of bilateral meetings the United States has held with Asian trading partners in the past few months to advance the Trump Administration’s goal of expanding trade ties with countries across the Asia-Pacific region. 
During the TIFA meeting, the United States and the Philippines had constructive discussions on outstanding bilateral trade issues, including related to agriculture, intellectual property protection, customs, investment, and other issues.  Recognizing their shared interest in expeditiously addressing these issues, they agreed on follow-up actions and to closely monitor progress.  Officials also discussed regional and global trade developments, including the Philippines’ progress in implementing the WTO Information Technology Agreement Expansion and WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement.  In addition, they agreed to work closely together to further the U.S.-ASEAN trade and investment agenda and efforts to make the Philippines’ year as ASEAN chair a success.
The TIFA meeting, which was chaired by Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Barbara Weisel and Philippine Undersecretary of Trade Ceferino Rodolfo, also included officials from a wide range of agencies.  For the United States, participants included officials from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the U.S. Departments of State, Agriculture, and Commerce, and the U.S. Agency for International Development. For the Philippines, participants included officials from the Departments for Trade and Industry, Agriculture, Finance, and Labor and Employment, as well as from the Customs Bureau, Board of Investments, National Economic Development Authority, Intellectual Property Office, the Philippine Economic Zone Authority, and the Government Procurement and Policy Board. 
Background
The United States had a $1.8 billion trade deficit with the Philippines in 2016.  Two-way goods trade between them totaled $18.2 billion in 2016. In 2016, the Philippines was the United States' 31st largest goods export market.  


USTR Calls a Special Session Under the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement
07/12/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today, as directed by President Trump, formally notified the Republic of Korea that the United States is calling a special Joint Committee meeting under the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) to start the process of negotiating to remove barriers to U.S. trade and consider needed amendments to the agreement. The USTR acted in accord with the President’s intention of reducing the trade deficit and giving Americans a better chance to succeed in global markets.
“President Trump continues to keep his promises to lower our trade deficit and negotiate better trade deals for American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Since KORUS went into effect, our trade deficit in goods with Korea has doubled from $13.2 billion to $27.6 billion, while U.S. goods exports have actually gone down. This is quite different from what the previous Administration sold to the American people when it urged approval of this Agreement. We can and must do better.” 
Ambassador Lighthizer has called for the special Joint Committee Meeting to take place in Washington, D.C., on a date next month to be agreed upon by the Parties. Throughout this process, USTR will work closely with Congress, the Department of Commerce, other relevant government agencies, and stakeholders to achieve the best outcome for the American people.
Read the Full Text of the USTR Letter to the Republic of Korea click here.
KORUS Joint Committee Background:
The Joint Committee, established in Article 22.2 of KORUS, supervises the implementation of the Agreement and the work of the various committees and bodies set up under the Agreement. It also seeks to resolve disputes concerning the interpretation and application of KORUS, and it considers ways to enhance trade relations between the United States and the Republic of Korea.  The Joint Committee may consider amendments to KORUS or make modifications to the commitments therein and issue interpretations of the provisions in KORUS.  The Joint Committee is co-chaired by the U.S. Trade Representative and the Minister of Trade of the Republic of Korea, or their respective designees.
U.S.-Korea Trade Background:
KORUS entered into force in March 2012.
 
On December 4, 2010, President Obama said regarding KORUS, “The tariff reductions in this agreement alone are expected to boost annual exports of American goods by up to $11 billion.”
 
In 2011, the last full year before KORUS went into effect, total U.S. goods exports to Korea were $43.5 billion. Last year, U.S. good exports were $42.3 billion, a decline of 2.7 percent.
 
From 2011 to 2016, the U.S. trade deficit in goods with Korea more than doubled, rising from $13.2 billion to $27.6 billion.


USTR Announces New Trade Allocations for Sugar
07/13/2017
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the country-specific and first-come, first-served import allocations for raw cane sugar, refined and specialty sugar, and sugar-containing products under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) for Fiscal Year 2018.
TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
Following the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announcement of June 30, 2017 establishing the quantities for imported sugars in FY 2018, USTR is establishing the following allocations of those quantities: 
Raw sugar allocations specific to 43 countries, totaling 1,117,195 metric tons raw value (MTRV), which is the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement. Click here for a list of countries, allocations, and conditions.
Refined sugar allocations of 10,300 MTRV to Canada, 2,954 MTRV to Mexico and the remaining 7,090 MTRV of refined sugar to be administered on a first-come, first-served basis.
Imports of all specialty sugar will be administered on a first-come, first-served basis in five tranches, as announced by USDA.
Sugar-containing product allocations of 59,250 metric tons (MT) to Canada. The remaining 5,459 MT of the in-quota quantity is available for other countries on a first-come, first-served basis.


Treasury, USTR Notice of Intent to Sign the Covered Agreement
07/14/2017
The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced their intent to sign the Bilateral Agreement between the United States of America and the European Union on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance. In addition to signing the Agreement in the coming weeks, the Administration also plans to issue a U.S. policy statement on implementation.
This is an important step in making U.S. companies more competitive in domestic and foreign markets and making regulations efficient, effective and appropriately tailored.  Furthermore, the Bilateral Agreement benefits the U.S. economy and consumers by affirming America’s state-based system of insurance regulation, providing regulatory certainty, and increasing growth opportunities for U.S. insurers.


United States and Malaysia Meet Under Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
07/17/2017
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia - The United States and Malaysia held a meeting today under their Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) to discuss ways to further strengthen trade relations and promote free, fair and balanced trade between them. The United States is holding talks with key trading partners across Asia, reflecting the priority the Trump Administration places on deepening trade ties with countries in the region.
During the meeting, the United States and Malaysia agreed to work together to address outstanding issues, including by establishing working groups related to goods, intellectual property, financial services, labor, and the environment. In addition, U.S. officials met with U.S. stakeholders in Penang and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The meetings were chaired by Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Barbara Weisel and Ministry of International Trade and Industry Secretary General J. Jayasiri. Additionally, the delegation for the United States included officials from USTR and the Departments of State and Commerce. U.S. officials also met with Bank Negara Malaysia.
Background
In 2016, the United States had a nearly $25 billion goods trade deficit with Malaysia. U.S. good exports totaled $11.8 billion, with top categories including electrical machinery, machinery, aircraft, optical and medical instruments, and plastics. U.S. goods imports from Malaysia totaled $36.6 billon, with top categories including electrical machinery, machinery, optical and medical instruments, rubber, and furniture and bedding. In 2015, U.S. services exports to Malaysia were $2.9 billion and U.S. services imports were $1.8 billion.


USTR Releases NAFTA Negotiating Objectives
07/17/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released a detailed and comprehensive summary of the negotiating objectives for the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Through the renegotiation of NAFTA, the Trump Administration will seek a much better agreement that reduces the U.S. trade deficit and is fair for all Americans by improving market access in Canada and Mexico for U.S. manufacturing, agriculture, and services. 
In addition to President Trump being the first American president to begin renegotiating a comprehensive free trade agreement like NAFTA, for the first time USTR has included deficit reduction as a specific objective for the NAFTA negotiations. Since NAFTA was implemented in 1994, the U.S. bilateral goods trade balance with Mexico has gone from a $1.3 billion surplus to a $64 billion deficit in 2016. Market access issues have arisen in Canada with respect to dairy, wine, grain and other products — barriers that the current agreement is unequipped to address.
The negotiating objectives also include adding a digital economy chapter and incorporating and strengthening labor and environment obligations that are currently in NAFTA side agreements. Additionally, among other objectives, the Administration will work to eliminate unfair subsidies, market-distorting practices by state owned enterprises, and burdensome restrictions on intellectual property.
The negotiating objectives aim to apply the highest standards covering the broadest possible range of goods and services to ensure truly free and fair trade that supports higher-paying jobs and economic growth in the United States.
“President Trump continues to fulfill his promise to renegotiate NAFTA to get a much better deal for all Americans,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Too many Americans have been hurt by closed factories, exported jobs, and broken political promises. Under President Trump’s leadership, USTR will negotiate a fair deal. We will seek to address America’s persistent trade imbalances, break down trade barriers, and give Americans new opportunities to grow their exports. President Trump is reclaiming American prosperity and making our country great again.”
At the direction of the President, on May 18, 2017, Ambassador Lighthizer sent a letter notifying Congress of the Administration’s intent to initiate NAFTA renegotiations. 
Since then, USTR has been conducting extensive consultations with Congress, stakeholders, and the public at large. USTR sought public comments, received more than 12,000 responses, and heard directly from over 140 witnesses over three days of public hearings. During this process, the Administration received valuable advice that directly impacted the development of the negotiating objectives.
Further, these objectives reflect the negotiating standards established by Congress in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA), which requires that USTR release objectives at least 30 days prior to formal negotiations. Negotiations will begin no earlier than August 16, 2017.
Through these negotiations, the Administration seeks an effectively implemented and enforced Agreement for more open, equitable, secure, and reciprocal market access. The Administration remains committed to conducting the negotiations with timely and substantive results for America’s workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.


USTR Announces First Round of NAFTA Negotiations
07/19/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced arrangements for the first round of negotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
The first round of the negotiations between the United States, Canada and Mexico will take place in Washington, D.C. from August 16 – 20, 2017.
The negotiations immediately follows the 90-day consultation period with Congress and the public initiated on May 18, 2017. On that day, Ambassador Lighthizer notified Congress of President Trump's intent to renegotiate NAFTA to get a better deal for America's workers, farmers, businesses and manufacturers.
Ambassador Lighthizer also announced that John Melle, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for the Western Hemisphere, will serve as Chief Negotiator for the NAFTA negotiations. In his role as Chief Negotiator, Melle will be responsible for the day-to-day negotiations at the staff level.
Since joining USTR in 1988, John Melle has held a number of positions covering Mexico, Canada, the Caribbean and Central America. As Assistant USTR for the Western Hemisphere, he is responsible for developing, coordinating and implementing the United States’ trade policy for the region.


Joint Release by USTR Ambassador Lighthizer and UK International Trade Secretary Dr. Liam Fox
07/24/2017
Washington, D.C. – The U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and the International Trade Secretary, Dr. Liam Fox, and jointly chaired the plenary session of the first meeting of US-UK Trade and Investment Working Group today.
The first meeting of  the Trade and Investment Working Group, made up of representatives from several U.S. and UK government agencies, will focus on providing commercial continuity for US and UK businesses as the UK leaves the EU and exploring ways to strengthen trade and investment ties ahead of the exit.
The Working Group will also begin to lay the groundwork for a potential, future free trade agreement once the UK has left the EU, and explore where we can collaborate to promote open markets around the world.
US Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer said:
”I warmly welcome Dr. Fox and his team back to Washington to kick off the first meeting of the US-UK Trade and Investment Working Group. 
“We expect this Working Group to be a key mechanism to deepen our already strong bilateral trade and investment relationship, and to lay the groundwork for our future trade relationship once the UK has left the EU.  
“I look forward to building on our already strong economic relationship and furthering our mutual goal of achieving free and fair trade and investment to create good-paying jobs on both sides of the Atlantic.”
International Trade Secretary, Dr Liam Fox said:
“It is a testament to the political will in both countries that this Working Group is meeting just a month after Ambassador Lighthizer and I discussed it in June. This will be our forum to strengthen the bilateral trade and investment relationship and deepen the already extensive economic ties between the UK and US.
“The immediate priority is to give businesses on both sides of the Atlantic certainty and confidence. Early discussions will focus on providing commercial continuity for US and UK businesses as the UK leaves the EU.
“The working group will also start to lay the ground work for potential negotiations on an ambitious free trade agreement. The US is our single largest trading partner therefore we have a strong foundation on which to build.”
Background:
Trade between the two countries is already worth about $230 billion a year, the U.S. is the single biggest source of inward investment into the UK, and together there is around $1 trillion invested in each other's economies.


USTR Announces Reallocation of Unused FY 2017 World Trade Organization Tariff-Rate Quota Volume for Raw Cane Sugar
07/31/2017
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today announced country-specific reallocations of the fiscal year (FY) 2017 in-quota quantity of the World Trade Organization (WTO) tariff-rate quota (TRQ) for imported raw cane sugar.  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
Based on consultations with quota holding countries, USTR is reallocating 86,495 metric tons* raw value (MTRV) of the original TRQ for raw cane sugar from countries that are unable to fill previously allocated, FY 2017 WTO raw sugar TRQ quantities.
USTR is allocating this quantity to the following countries in the quantities specified below:
 
 
Country                      FY 2017 Raw Cane Sugar Unused Reallocation (MTRV)
Argentina	4,756
Australia	9,180
Belize	1,217
Brazil	16,038
Colombia	2,655
Costa Rica	1,659
Ecuador	1,217
El Salvador	2,876
Fiji	995
Guatemala	5,309
Guyana	1,327
Honduras	1,106
India	885
Jamaica	1,217
Malawi	1,106
Mauritius	1,327
Mozambique	1,438
Nicaragua	2,323
Panama	3,208
Peru	4,535
Philippines	14,932
South Africa	2,544
Swaziland	1,770
Thailand	1,548
Zimbabwe	1,327
These allocations are based on the countries’ historical shipments to the United States.  The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin.  Certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country to which an allocation is provided.
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


USTR Announces Revised Fiscal Year 2017 Tariff-Rate Quota Allocations for Raw Cane Sugar
07/31/2017
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced additional country-specific allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) for imported raw cane sugar for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 (October 1, 2016 through September 30, 2017).  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff. On July 24, 2017, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)  announced the establishment of an additional in-quota quantity for the raw cane sugar TRQ for the remainder of FY 2017, in the amount of 244,690 metric tons* raw value (MTRV).  This quantity is in addition to the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Uruguay Round Agreements.  The USDA also announced that all sugar entering the United States under the FY 2017 raw sugar TRQ will be permitted to enter U.S. Customs territory through October 31, 2017, a month later than the usual last entry date. USTR is allocating this additional quantity of 244,690 MTRV to the following countries in the quantities specified below:
Country	FY 2017 Raw Cane  Sugar Increase (MTRV)
Argentina	15,575
Australia	30,064
Belize	3,984
Brazil	13,962
Colombia	8,693
Costa Rica	5,433
Ecuador	3,984
El Salvador	9,417
Fiji	3,260
Guatemala	17,386
Guyana	4,347
Honduras	3,622
India	2,898
Jamaica	3,984
Malawi	3,622
Mauritius	4,347
Mozambique	4,709
Nicaragua	7,606
Panama	10,504
Peru	14,851
Philippines	48,898
South Africa	8,331
Swaziland	5,795
Thailand	5,071
Zimbabwe	4,347
These allocations are based on the countries’ historical shipments to the United States.  The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country to which an allocation is provided. *Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


USTR Robert Lighthizer to Lead U.S. Delegation at 2017 AGOA Forum in Togo
08/07/2017
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer will lead the U.S. delegation at the 2017 African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Forum, held August 8-10 in Lomé, Togo.
Established by AGOA law, the annual forum provides a platform for promoting stronger economic ties between the United States and qualifying sub-Saharan African countries that receive enhanced U.S. market access under AGOA. 
“The AGOA Forum represents an important opportunity to demonstrate the Trump Administration’s commitment to Sub-Saharan Africa,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “I look forward to engaging trading partners on our commitment to a stronger and more sustainable relationship with Africa through free, fair, and reciprocal trade.”
The theme of this year’s Forum is “The United States and Africa: Partnering for Prosperity through Trade.” The Forum begins with events incorporating private sector, civil society, and U.S.-sponsored African Women’s Entrepreneurship Program (AWEP) participants, followed by two days of ministerial plenaries with representatives from the United States and the 38 African beneficiary countries.
Led by Ambassador Lighthizer, the U.S. delegation will include senior officials from the U.S. Departments of State, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, and Transportation, as well as other U.S. government agencies and Congress.


Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at 2017 AGOA Forum
08/09/2017
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:
Good morning, Your Excellency, Prime Minister Komi Klassou; Trade Minister Legzim-Balouki; esteemed members of the Togolese Government; ministers and heads of delegations from the AGOA partner countries; and distinguished delegates and guests.
I am honored to be here, and I join on behalf of President Trump and our Government in welcoming all of you to the 16th annual AGOA Forum.
Before I begin, I would like to especially thank President Gnassingbé for hosting this year’s AGOA Forum in your capital city. Thank you for your hospitality and the warm welcome we have received.  Togo is positioning itself as a transportation hub and logistics center, so it has a clear appreciation of the benefits of trade.
I am pleased that the theme of this year’s Forum is “The United States and Africa: Partnering for Prosperity through Trade.” 
The United States is committed to Africa.  We see great potential to grow and deepen our trade relationship, with the goal of establishing a true partnership for the future.  By lowering barriers and tackling other constraints that impede trade and investment, we are poised to see U.S.-Africa trade flourish.  To realize these gains, however, much more work needs to be done, as we will discuss during this important AGOA Forum.
The U.S. Government has enjoyed a bipartisan consensus for the past 16 years on its trade policy towards Africa, with AGOA providing a framework for our economic engagement. 
The Africa of today is not the Africa of 17 years ago. We live in a changing world and much has changed in Africa over this period.  For instance, the United States is importing over one billion dollars in luxury automobiles from Sub-Saharan Africa annually.  Meanwhile, some AGOA partners are implementing reciprocal trade agreements with major developed economies that compete with the United States.  So let us focus on ways we can achieve deeper commercial engagement now while working towards greater reciprocity in the future to ensure that sustained political support for our trade relationship goes forward.
I look forward to discussing these issues and opportunities further in this meeting.  Together, we can create a better business environment and chart a path toward a stronger and more sustainable trade relationship for the future. 
Finally, I would like to take a brief moment to announce an example of an AGOA beneficiary country working hard to succeed with an export strategy.  I have just signed a letter approving an AGOA textile and apparel visa for Togo. This important step will permit Togolese entrepreneurs to take advantage of the many textile and apparel benefits available under the AGOA program. And we wish them all the best in this endeavor.
We look forward to continuing to develop our trade relationship throughout the region. I thank you very much for this opportunity to be here and to represent my Government.


United States and Cambodia Discuss Intensified Work Program
08/09/2017
Washington DC – The United States and Cambodia met yesterday under their Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) to discuss ways to further expand trade and investment between them.  The United States used the meeting to update Cambodia on the Trump Administration’s priorities on trade, including on enforcement, lowering the trade deficit, and opening new markets, and to underscore the importance the Trump Administration places on deepening trade ties with countries in the Asia-Pacific region, including Cambodia.
During the TIFA meeting, the United States and Cambodia agreed to work together to address outstanding bilateral trade issues, including related to labor, intellectual property protection, and financial services.  To ensure progress, they agreed to specific follow-up actions in the coming months and the establishment of working groups on labor, intellectual property, services and digital trade, and trade facilitation.  They also discussed sanitary and phytosanitary issues and reviewed Cambodia’s implementation the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement, as well as its participation in the WTO Information Technology Agreement.   
The TIFA meeting, which was chaired by Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Barbara Weisel and Minister of Commerce Pan Sorasak, also included officials from a wide range of agencies.  For the United States, participants included officials from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, State and Treasury, and the U.S. Agency for International Development. For Cambodia, participants included Cambodian Ambassador to the United States Chum Bunrong, officials from the Ministries of Commerce, Economy and Finance, Post and Telecommunication, Labor and Vocational Training, Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries, as well as from the National Bank of Cambodia and General Directorate of Custom and Excise.
Background
The U.S. trade in goods deficit with Cambodia was $2.5 billion in 2016. Two-way trade between the United States and Cambodia totaled $3.2 billion in 2016. U.S. goods exports totaled $361 million, including vehicles, machinery, food waste, animal feed, fur, and non-woven textiles.  U.S. agricultural exports to Cambodia totaled $52 million last year, including soybean meal, distillers grains, hides and skins, prepared food, and beef products.  U.S. imports from Cambodia totaled $2.8 billion, including knit and woven apparel, footwear, plastics, and leather products.  The U.S. imported $23 million in agricultural products from Cambodia last year, including fruit and vegetables, rice, and other products.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Closing Statement on 2017 AGOA Forum
08/10/2017
Lomé, Togo – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement on the conclusion of the 16th annual African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Forum, held August 8-10.
"It's been an honor to represent the American people at the AGOA Forum. President Trump is committed to strengthening our relationship with the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. I thank the Togolese people for their hospitality and look forward to reinforcing ties between our governments, businesses, and communities in the United States and Africa. 
“Africa is better positioned than ever before to sell to and buy from the United States.  Since AGOA came into effect, regional real GDP has more than doubled and robust economic growth has helped reduce poverty and raise living standards across the continent.
“Bilateral trade that benefit both U.S. and African exporters and service providers lies at the core of our Africa trade policy. I encourage our AGOA partners to promote fair trade, foster an improved business environment, and create economic opportunity that lays the groundwork for the next stage in the U.S.-Africa trade relationship.” 


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the Presidential Memo on China
08/14/2017
Washington, DC - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement in response to President Trump's directive for USTR to determine whether to initiate an investigation of China regarding intellectual property, innovation, and technology:
"The United States has for many years been facing a very serious problem. China's industrial policies and other practices reportedly have forced the transfer of vital U.S. technology to Chinese companies. We will engage in a thorough investigation and, if needed, take action to preserve the future of U.S. industry. Potentially millions of jobs are at stake for the current and future generations. This will be one of USTR's highest priorities, and we will report back to the President as soon as possible."


Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the First Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
08/16/2017
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:
This is an historic day for the United States. Today, for the first time, we will start negotiating to revise a major free trade agreement.  American politicians have been promising to renegotiate NAFTA for years, but today President Trump is going to fulfill those promises.
I want to thank members of Congress, and their staffs, who have helped lay the groundwork for these negotiations.  We look forward to working with them now and in the future as things proceed.
I would also like to thank the members of our advisory committees, and other stakeholders, who have given USTR their thoughts about how this agreement can be improved.  We held three days of hearings, and we received testimony and comments from thousands of stakeholders.  Their suggestions are critical to our process, and we appreciate everyone’s help.
First, I know we all agree that NAFTA needs updating. This is a 23 year-old agreement and our economies are very different than they were in the 1990’s. We need to modernize or create provisions which protect digital trade and services trade, e-commerce, update customs procedures, protect intellectual property, improve energy provisions, enhance transparency rules, and promote science-based agricultural trade.
In each of these areas, hopefully we will develop model provisions that can be used for years ahead and that have the flexibility to adapt to future innovations that we can’t even imagine at this point. This is an important part of our process.
After modernizing, the tough work begins. We must balance the legitimate interests of literally millions of people in our countries -- those of farmers, and businesses, and workers and yes, families.
Many Americans have benefited from NAFTA. For many of our farmers and ranchers, Canada and Mexico are their largest export markets. Americans send billions of dollars of corn and soybeans, and poultry across our borders to dinner tables throughout North America.
These are hardworking people with families who ask little from their government. Many are particularly vulnerable today because of low commodity prices.
I’ve always thought that communities along our borders have a particular equity in this agreement. In many cases their lives, businesses, and families are very much on both sides of the dividing line. They too are hardworking men and women trying to raise a families and accumulate wealth. We must keep their interests paramount.
But for countless Americans, this agreement has failed.
We cannot ignore the huge trade deficits, the lost manufacturing jobs, the businesses that have closed or moved because of incentives -- intended or not -- in the current agreement.
The numbers are clear. The U.S. Government has certified that at least 700,000 Americans have lost their jobs due to changing trade flows resulting from NAFTA. Many people believe that number is much, much bigger than that. In 1993, when NAFTA was approved, the United States and Mexico experienced relatively balanced trade. However since then, we have had persistent trade deficits – in the last year totaling nearly $57 billion. In the auto sector alone, the U.S. has a $68 billion deficit with Mexico.  Thousands of American factory workers have lost their jobs because of these provisions. In recent years, we have seen some improvement in our trade balance with Canada.  But over the last ten years, our deficit in goods has exceeded $365 billion. 
The views of the President about NAFTA, which I completely share, are well known.  I want to be clear that he is not interested in a mere tweaking of a few provisions and a couple of updated chapters.  We feel that NAFTA has fundamentally failed many, many Americans and needs major improvement.
Here are some of the examples of what I believe needs to be changed. We need to assure that huge trade deficits do not continue and that we have balance and reciprocity.  This should be periodically reviewed. Rules of origin, particularly on autos and auto parts, must require higher NAFTA content and substantial U.S. content. Country of origin should be verified, not “deemed.” Labor provisions should be included in the agreement and be as strong as possible. The agreement should have effective provisions to guard against currency manipulation. The dispute settlement provisions should be designed to respect our national sovereignty and our democratic processes. We should include provisions to guard against market-distorting practices of other countries, including third-party dumping and state-owned enterprises. We should assure that there is equal access and reciprocity in government procurement and agriculture.
These are just a few examples of key priorities for the United States – but I think they are sufficient to show that our task is a very difficult one.  On the other hand, the stakes are high for all of our citizens and the benefits of a good agreement can be substantial.
My hope is that together we will produce a result which moves us to freer markets, fairer and balanced trade, and stronger ties between our three countries.  I look forward to working with Secretary Guajardo and Minister Freeland on this very important effort. Thank you very much, and now we will get down to work


USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue and USTR Robert Lighthizer Announce Expanded Access for U.S. Rice Exports to Colombia
08/17/2017
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced an agreement reached with the government of Colombia to allow for expanded market access for U.S. exports of paddy rice.
A previous agreement in 2012 between both countries enabled exports of U.S. paddy rice to Colombia, but under strict and costly requirements related to phytosanitary concerns.  The new agreement lifts these requirements and expands access beyond the single port of Barranquilla, which was the only port previously open to U.S. exporters.
The new agreement reflects the close trade ties between the United States and Colombia, and the high quality and safe rice produced by the U.S. rice industry.  The agreement, combined with preferential access under the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement (CTPA), will further accelerate increased U.S. exports of food and agriculture to Colombia.
USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue said:
“Today’s announcement is another great testament of our determination to expand export opportunities for America’s farmers and ranchers and to ensure fair trade with our international partners. This agreement expands opportunities for U.S. rice producers in the important Colombian market.  It also underscores the value of improved relationships to solve problems, based on a solid trade agreement that benefits both parties and on a commitment to science-based rule-making.” 
U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, said:
“I welcome this new agreement and the expanded market access and opportunity it will afford to U.S. exporters of paddy rice.  This outcome is a result of the Administration’s efforts to enforce international trade commitments on behalf of the American people, and to deepen our bilateral ties with key trading partners, particularly allies like Colombia.”
Background:
Colombia is the United States’ 12th largest export market for food and agricultural products, with exports valued at over $2.4 billion in 2016 – a sharp increase over exports prior to completion of the CTPA, when Colombia ranked as the 26th market for U.S. food and agricultural exports in 2011, with an associated value of $1.12 billion.  Exports of milled rice to Colombia have increased dramatically since entry into force of the CTPA in 2012, averaging $79 million per year compared to $3 million in 2011. 
Exports of paddy rice since 2012, when the CTPA entered into force and the letter exchange provided for market access, have constituted a small but growing share of total U.S. rice exports to Colombia, reaching $15 million in 2016.  Under the new agreement on paddy rice, costly and unnecessary fumigation and processing requirements are rescinded, and access expanded to all ports of entry in Colombia.
Paddy rice, also known as “rough rice,” is the whole rice grain, along with its hulls.  It is harvested directly from rice fields or paddies and transported or exported to processing facilities.  As part of the processing, the protective hull is removed, leaving only the actual rice kernel for consumption.  By leaving the sturdy hull on, it is possible to store the kernels for several months without incurring product losses due to spoiling or infestation.


USTR Lighthizer, Japan Foreign Minister Kono Agree to Accelerate Bilateral Trade Engagement
08/17/2017
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today met with Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono for wide-ranging discussions on strengthening and advancing bilateral trade and economic relations. 
At the meeting, they discussed work plans to promote the trade agenda under the U.S.-Japan Economic Dialogue, co-chaired by Vice President Mike Pence and Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso, and agreed on accelerating discussions to address specific bilateral trade issues as well as to explore approaches to strengthen free and fair trade and promote high trade and investment standards.
“Secretary Ross and I welcome the acceleration of discussions on trade with Japan that fulfills the Administration’s objectives of advancing free and fair trade with one of our largest trading partners,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “We look forward to constructive and vigorous engagement with Japan across many issues to improve trade outcomes for American workers.”
Ambassador Lighthizer and Foreign Minister Kono also discussed U.S. concerns related to Japan’s recent imposition of a safeguard measure that significantly increases tariffs on exports of frozen U.S. beef.  Additionally, they covered topics of common concern and cooperation related to combatting unfair trade practices by third countries, which is another priority work area on trade under the U.S.-Japan Economic Dialogue. 
Both Ministers expressed commitment to an ongoing dialogue to ensure that outcomes on trade are sufficiently advancing and fulfilling the economic potential of the two countries’ strong alliance.


USTR Announces Special Session of the U.S.-Korea FTA Joint Committee
08/17/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced arrangements for the special session meeting of the Joint Committee under the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement.
The special session will be held in Seoul, South Korea, on August 22, 2017. Ambassador Lighthizer and Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong will open the meeting via videoconference, to be followed by additional senior-level discussions between U.S. and Korean officials in Seoul.
Background: The meeting was requested by Ambassador Lighthizer in a July 12 letter to former Korean Trade Minister Joo.  In the letter, Ambassador Lighthizer requested the meeting to consider matters affecting the operation of the KORUS Agreement, including possible amendments and modifications to resolve several problems regarding market access in Korea for U.S. exports and, most importantly, to address the significant trade imbalance. 


USTR Announces Initiation of Section 301 Investigation of China
08/18/2017
Washington, DC – Today, U.S Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer formally initiated an investigation of China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. The investigation will seek to determine whether acts, policies, and practices of the Government of China related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation are unreasonable or discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce. 
“On Monday, President Trump instructed me to look into Chinese laws, policies, and practices which may be harming American intellectual property rights, innovation, or technology development,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “After consulting with stakeholders and other government agencies, I have determined that these critical issues merit a thorough investigation. I notified the President that today I am beginning an investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.” 
The initiation follows upon President Trump’s Memorandum of August 14, 2017 instructing the U.S. Trade Representative to consider the possible initiation of an investigation. The President’s Memorandum emphasized that “the United States is a world leader in research-and-development-intensive, high-technology goods,” and that “violations of intellectual property rights and other unfair technology transfers potentially threaten United States firms by undermining their ability to compete fairly in the global market.”  The President’s Memorandum further noted that China’s conduct “may inhibit United States exports, deprive United States citizens of fair remuneration for their innovations, divert American jobs to workers in China, contribute to our trade deficit with China, and otherwise undermine American manufacturing, services, and innovation.” 
Details on the investigation, including the schedule for public comments and a public hearing, are set out in a notice posted on the USTR website and to be published in the Federal Register. 
Background:
Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, gives the U.S. Trade Representative broad authority to respond to a foreign country’s unfair trade practices. If USTR makes an affirmative determination of actionable conduct, it has the authority to take all appropriate and feasible action to obtain the elimination of the act, policy, or practice, subject to the direction of the President, if any. The statute includes authorization to take any actions that are within the President’s power with respect to trade in goods or services, or any other area of pertinent relations with the foreign country.


Trilateral Statement on the Conclusion of NAFTA Round One
08/20/2017
Washington, DC – On August 16, 2017, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and Mexican Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo launched the renegotiation and modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in Washington, DC. This began five full days of meetings by a team of subject matter experts covering more than two dozen different negotiation topics.  Detailed conceptual presentations were made by the United States, Mexico and Canada across the scope of the agreement, and negotiating groups began work to advance text and agreed to provide additional text, comments or alternate proposals during the next two weeks.
The scope and volume of proposals during the first round of the negotiation reflects a commitment from all three countries to an ambitious outcome and reaffirms the importance of updating the rules governing the world’s largest free trade area.
In addition to the negotiations, officials from all three countries continued to engage a wide range of stakeholders, including representatives of the private sector; industry associations; civil society, including labor groups; legislative representatives; and state/provincial officials.
Negotiators from each country will continue domestic consultations and work to advance negotiating text through the end of August, and will reconvene in Mexico for a second round of talks from September 1-5.
Negotiations will continue at this rapid pace, moving to Canada in late September and returning to the United States in October, with additional rounds being planned for the remainder of the year.
While a great deal of effort and negotiation will be required in the coming months, Canada, Mexico and the United States are committed to an accelerated and comprehensive negotiation process that will upgrade our agreement and establish 21st century standards to the benefit of our citizens.


USTR Lighthizer Statement on the Conclusion of the Special Session of the US-Korea FTA Joint Committee
08/22/2017
Washington, DC – On August 22, 2017, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Korean Trade Minister Hyun-chong Kim commenced via videoconference a day-long meeting in Seoul, South Korea on the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement.
Ambassador Lighthizer on July 12, 2017 called for the KORUS Joint Committee special session to address implementation concerns as well as to discuss potential modifications and amendments to remedy the large U.S. trade imbalance with Korea.
“The United States and Korea have an important economic relationship,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Unfortunately, too many American workers have not benefited from the agreement. USTR has long pressed the Korean government to address burdensome regulations which often exclude U.S. firms or artificially set prices for American intellectual property. This negotiation offers us an opportunity to resolve these and other barriers.”
“Since KORUS entered into effect, U.S. goods exports have decreased while the trade deficit overall with Korea has nearly tripled,” Ambassador Lighthizer continued. “American service exports have seen virtually no growth in the past four years. President Trump is committed to substantial improvements in the Korean agreement that address the trade imbalance and ensure that the deal is fully implemented.”
Discussions will continue over the coming weeks regarding issues raised during the special session of the Joint Committee.  Ambassador Lighthizer remains focused on improving implementation of KORUS and amending or modifying the agreement to benefit American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.
U.S.-Korea Trade Background:
In 2011, the last full year before KORUS went into effect in March 2012, total U.S. goods exports to Korea were $43.5 billion. Last year, U.S. good exports were $42.3 billion, a decline of 2.7 percent.
From 2011 to 2016, the U.S. trade deficit in goods with Korea more than doubled, rising from $13.2 billion to $27.6 billion.
The U.S. deficit in the autos sector alone is $24 billion, which is nearly 90% of the $27.6 billion goods deficit in 2016. 


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the President's Tax Reform Agenda
08/30/2017
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement regarding the President’s tax reform agenda:
"I applaud the President's leadership on tax reform that will create more U.S. jobs and help level the playing field for American exporters in the global economy. For far too long, American workers have been disadvantaged by a domestic trade barrier: the highest business tax rate in the developed world. President Trump's tax agenda provides a simpler and fairer tax system to help restore American competitiveness and bring back jobs."


WTO Appellate Body Rejects EU Allegations of Prohibited Subsidies to Boeing In Latest Win for the United States, WTO Appellate Body Rejects EU Prohibited Subsidy Case
09/04/2017
Washington, D.C. – The World Trade Organization (WTO) today issued an Appellate Body report rejecting the case brought by the European Union (EU) alleging that the United States provided so-called “prohibited” subsidies to Boeing.  The EU challenged seven Washington State tax measures, alleging that they were contingent on Boeing’s use of domestic fuselages and wings instead of imported fuselages and wings.  The Appellate Body disagreed, giving the United States a complete victory in this dispute.
This finding comes on the heels of a WTO compliance panel finding in June in a separate dispute that 28 of 29 U.S. programs challenged by the EU were consistent with WTO rules.  In that dispute, the compliance panel found that only a single Washington State tax program has limited effects contrary to WTO rules. That panel’s findings are now on appeal before the Appellate Body.
These findings in the two aircraft cases brought by the EU are in sharp contrast to the findings of a different compliance panel in a dispute brought by the United States challenging the EU’s “launch aid” and other subsidies to Airbus.  In September 2016, that WTO compliance panel found that the EU had failed to achieve compliance with its WTO obligations, and had further breached WTO rules by giving Airbus billions of dollars in additional subsidies.  The EU subsidies appear to cause tens of billions of dollars in harm to Boeing. 
“European governments have provided billions of dollars in illegal subsidies to Airbus for years, yet they have tried and failed to create a false equivalence with the United States and Boeing.” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Just as the EU lost on nearly all claims against the United States in June 2017, today’s WTO report further confirms that the EU cannot justify their own illegal subsidies by hiding behind groundless claims against the U.S.  The EU should immediately come to the table on a solution that will end all its WTO-inconsistent subsidies.”
Background
After many years of seeking unsuccessfully to convince the EU and four of its member States (France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom) to cease its subsidization of Airbus, in 2004 the United States brought a WTO challenge to EU subsidies.  The EU responded by challenging what it claimed were even larger subsidies to Boeing by the United States.  Then, in 2014, the EU launched a second case against the United States, alleging that certain Washington tax measures were contingent on Boeing’s use of domestic fuselages and wings, in breach of the WTO’s prohibited subsidies provisions.
Today’s report is with respect to that 2014 case and ends that dispute with a complete victory for the United States. 
With respect to the two prior, long-standing disputes, two separate WTO panels addressed the claims brought by the United States and the EU, respectively. The two processes resulted in two very different sets of WTO findings and subsequent respondent actions. Click here to read more about these disputes.


Trilateral Statement on the Conclusion of the Second Round of NAFTA Negotiations
09/05/2017
Washington, DC – On September 5, 2017, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and Mexican Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo concluded the second round of the renegotiation and modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in Mexico City, Mexico. This concluded five days of meetings by a team of subject matter experts covering various negotiation topics. 
Building on the progress made in the First Round of the renegotiation and modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, and Mexican Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo, today successfully concluded the Second Round of negotiations, which took place in Mexico City from September 1 – 5. 
Over the past five days, more than two dozen working groups comprised of trade experts and technical officials worked diligently to advance the discussions and exchanged information and proposals.  In several groups, this engagement resulted in the consolidation of proposals into a single text upon which the teams will continue to work during subsequent negotiation rounds.
Important progress was achieved in many disciplines and the Parties expect more in the coming weeks. The three countries will continue their respective processes of internal consultation in preparation for the Third Round of negotiations, which will take place in Ottawa, Canada, from September 23 – 27. 
The Ministers from Mexico, the United States and Canada reaffirm their commitment to an accelerated and comprehensive negotiation, with the shared goal of concluding the process towards the end of this year. 
The successful conclusion of these negotiations will update NAFTA through new rules that will generate important economic opportunities for all three countries, fostering further growth in the region for the benefit of the three NAFTA partners.


Closing Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Second Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
09/05/2017
As Delivered  
September 5, 2017
Mexico City, Mexico
Ambassador Lighthizer:
Good Afternoon.
Thank you minister and secretary for your good wishes on behalf of the people in Texas and Louisiana who are suffering so much right now. It’s a great pleasure for me to be here in Mexico City.
I first want to thank Secretary Guajardo, his colleagues in the Mexican government, and the Mexican people for their generous hospitality. It has been years since I first visited Mexico City, and I was excited to return. This is a beautiful, fascinating city, and home to one of the great cultures of the world. It’s a real pleasure to be here and to witness that and to experience it.
I would also like to thank Minister Freeland for her leadership during these rounds. Together, we have developed a great relationship, and I am looking forward to continuing sitting across the table from both of you as things proceed.
Today, we mark the conclusion of the second round of this historic negotiation. I am pleased to report that we have found mutual agreement on many important issues.
Our work continues at a record pace. By the end of this round, we will have tabled text for over two dozen chapters. These chapters represent a new modern agreement which, once concluded, will support robust economic growth in North America for decades to come.
As you know, these negotiations are a very important priority for President Trump.
The American delegation is focused on expanding opportunities for American agriculture, services, and innovative industries. 
But, as I alluded to in my opening round, we also must address the needs of those harmed by the current NAFTA, especially our manufacturing workers. We must have a trade agreement that benefits all Americans, and not just some at the expense of others.
I am hopeful we can arrive at an agreement that helps American workers, farmers, and ranchers while also raising the living standards of workers in Mexico and Canada.
Secretary Guajardo and his team have done an excellent job chairing the second round, and I look forward to continued progress for round three and the ones that follow.
Thank you.                                     


USDA, USTR Announce that Vietnam Reopens Market to U.S. DDGS Exports
09/06/2017
(WASHINGTON, Sept. 6, 2017) – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced that the government of Vietnam has notified the U.S. that it will resume imports of American distillers dried grains (DDGS).  In December 2016, Vietnam suspended imports of U.S. DDGS after reported detections of quarantine pests in U.S. shipments.  Prior to the suspension, Vietnam was the third-largest market for U.S. DDGS, with exports valued at more than $230 million in 2016.  The resolution of this issue also opens the way for corn and wheat shipments, which were restricted due to previous treatment requirements.
DDGS are a co-product of ethanol production and are used as an ingredient to provide protein and energy in animal feed.  Between 2007 and 2016, annual U.S. exports of DDGS worldwide grew from $392 million to $2.16 billion.
The DDGS ban is one of several agricultural and other priority issues raised in connection with Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc’s visit to Washington in May 2017, where he met with President Trump as well as Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  Following the series of meetings, the two governments released a joint statement pledging to work closely together to resolve the DDGS issue.
“This is great news and I am pleased that the U.S. exporters will once again be able to ship DDGS to Vietnam, which is one of the fastest-growing global markets for U.S. agriculture,” said Secretary Perdue.  “Expanding markets around the world can only help American agriculture.”
“We welcome the resolution of this issue, which will help in our efforts to balance trade and deepen our trade relations with an important Asia-Pacific partner,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.
Following the suspension, representatives from USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) engaged in technical discussions with Vietnam’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development regarding alternative treatment options that would allow U.S. exports to resume.  APHIS and USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) and Federal Grain Inspection Service then partnered with industry to host a delegation of Vietnamese officials to view the U.S. fumigation and export infrastructure.  USTR, FAS, and U.S. Embassy officials also met with their counterparts in Vietnam. 
The U.S. Government continues to work with Vietnam to address other priority agricultural issues.  These include Vietnam’s adoption of Codex Maximum Residue Limits for veterinary drugs, as agreed during Prime Minister Phuc’s May visit, as well as removal of Vietnam’s ban on “white offal.”



Joint Media Statement on the AEM-USTR Consultations
09/12/2017
1.Consultations between the ten ASEAN Economic Ministers (AEM) and the United States Trade Representative (“the Ministers”) were held on 9 September 2017 in Pasay City, Philippines. The Consultations were co-chaired by H.E. Ramon M. Lopez, Secretary of Trade and Industry of the Philippines, and Ms. Barbara Weisel, Assistant United States Trade Representative (AUSTR) for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, Office of the United States Trade Representative, representing H.E. Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative (USTR).
 
2.USTR congratulated the ASEAN Ministers on the 50th Founding Anniversary of ASEAN, which marked a historic milestone in ASEAN’s deepening regional integration. The Ministers reaffirmed their commitment to strengthen economic cooperation towards shared prosperity and inclusive growth.
 
3.The Ministers were pleased to note another historic milestone, which is the commemoration of the 40th Anniversary of ASEAN-U.S. relations. For the last 40 years, the partnership between the two sides has progressed on many fronts, particularly on the area of economic cooperation between ASEAN and the U.S. The ASEAN   Ministers   looked   forward to further enhancing ASEAN’s economic relationship with the U.S. under the new U.S. Administration.
 
4.The Ministers noted that two-way merchandise trade between ASEAN and the U.S. continues to grow. In 2016, merchandise trade reached USD 211.8 billion, which accounted for 9.5 per cent of ASEAN’s total trade making the United States the third largest trading partner of ASEAN, according to ASEAN statistics. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) flows from the U.S. to ASEAN amounted to USD 11.7 billion in 2016, placing the U.S. as ASEAN’s third largest external source of FDI. For the United States, ASEAN is the fourth largest trading partner.
 
5.The Ministers noted the progress in the implementation of the 2016-2017 ASEAN-U.S. Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement (TIFA) and the Expanded Economic Engagement (E3) Initiatives Work Plan. The Ministers endorsed the 2017-2018 ASEAN-U.S. Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement (TIFA) and the Expanded Economic Engagement (E3) Initiatives Work Plan, and encouraged officials to focus on developing concrete initiatives that will expand free and fair trade, and increase jobs and economic growth in the United States and ASEAN. Ministers also supported the conclusion of the ASEAN-U.S. Cooperation in Fostering Trade in Telecommunications and Information Technology Services.
 
6.The Ministers welcomed the launch of the U.S.-ASEAN Connect framework in September 2016 through the four areas of energy, innovation, policy and business, and the establishment of the U.S.-ASEAN Connect Center in Jakarta. U.S.-ASEAN Connect has been providing opportunities for ASEAN and the United States to stay connected through better access to expertise, information and resources of the U.S. government and private sector. The Ministers also noted the progress in the implementation of  activities under the U.S.-ASEAN Connect framework in 2017, including activities undertaken under the theme of “digital economy”.
 
7.ASEAN Ministers expressed express their appreciation to the U.S. for its continued assistance through the ASEAN Connectivity Through Trade and Investment (ACTI) project, which supports ASEAN in the areas of ASEAN Single Window, trade facilitation, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), as well as information and communication technology (ICT) development.
 
8.The U.S. and ASEAN Ministers welcomed the ratification of the Protocol on the Legal Framework to Implement the ASEAN Single Window (ASW) which enables the exchange-ready Member States to transition to Live Operation. The U.S. also congratulated ASEAN on establishing the ASW Project Management office which has assumed full responsibility for managing the ASW Regional Service Operation.
 
9.The Ministers conducted a Dialogue with the U.S.-ASEAN Business Council (USABC) to discuss USABC’s recent activities to further promote mutually beneficial trade and investment relationships between the U.S and ASEAN. The Ministers expressed appreciation to the USABC for its support to ASEAN Member States and their business activities, and encouraged further contribution of USABC to enhance ASEAN-U.S. economic relations.


United States and Malaysia Discuss Advancing Bilateral Trade
09/12/2017
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer met with Malaysian Minister of Trade and Industry Mustapa Mohamed yesterday ahead of President Trump’s meeting with Prime Minister Najib. During the meeting, Ambassador Lighthizer and Minister Mustapa discussed ways to further strengthen their trade relationship. They directed their staffs to make further progress in addressing specific issues being discussed under the U.S.-Malaysia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement, including on insurance and financial services, intellectual property, agriculture, goods, labor, and environment.  The two Ministers agreed to stay in close touch over the coming months to assess progress in resolving outstanding issues and to engage on ways to enhance their economic ties and promote more balanced trade between the two nations. 
 
Background
Malaysia is the 18th largest U.S. goods trading partner, with $48.5 billion in bilateral goods trade in 2016.  In 2016, the United States had a $24.8 billion goods trade deficit with Malaysia, with U.S. exports of $11.8 billion and U.S. imports of $36.6 billion.  In 2015, the United States had a roughly $1.0 billion bilateral services trade surplus with Malaysia, with total bilateral services trade of $4.7 billion.


USTR Lighthizer Initiates Special 301 Out-of-Cycle Review for Thailand, Welcomes Commerce Minister Apiradi
09/15/2017
Washington, D.C. - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced an Out-of-Cycle Review (OCR) of Thailand’s Special 301 status due to positive steps the country has taken regarding intellectual property (IP).
In the 2017 Special 301 report, USTR placed Thailand on the Priority Watch List but noted that the United States was prepared to review that status if Thailand continued to take positive action on IP issues and made substantial progress in addressing the concerns described in the Special 301 report. 
The Trump Administration has been closely engaging with Thailand on improving IP protection and enforcement.  In recent months, Thailand has taken steps to improve enforcement against pirated and counterfeit goods, including enhanced coordination among enforcement agencies and a sustained focus on investigations and raids. 
In addition, in August 2017, Thailand acceded to the Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks, making it easier for U.S. companies to file for trademark protection. Thailand also has been addressing the backlog for patent and trademark applications, including by hiring a significant number of additional examiners. 
The United States is continuing to engage with Thailand on other important issues, such as on reforms to its legal system and on improving transparency and due process with respect to pharmaceutical issues.
In light of Thailand’s progress, the United States chose to conduct an OCR.  As part of this process, USTR will publish a Federal Register Notice seeking comments on Thailand’s IP record.
The Special 301 OCR announcement comes as Ambassador Lighthizer welcomed Thailand’s Minister of Commerce Apiradi Tantraporn to Washington, DC for a meeting to discuss ways to increase trade and reduce the trade deficit between the United States and Thailand. During the meeting, Ambassador Lighthizer stressed the need to address longstanding trade barriers, including on U.S. meat and other agriculture exports. He also highlighted the need for progress on customs, goods, worker rights, and other issues discussed during the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement meeting in July. 
Background
The United States and Thailand have strong and longstanding trade ties. Thailand is the United States’ 21st-largest goods trading partner, with two-way goods trade totaling $40 billion in 2016.  The United States’ trade deficit with Thailand totals $18.9 billion, the 11th largest. 
USTR uses OCRs to encourage progress on IP issues.  Successful resolution of specific IP issues of concern can lead to a change in a trading partner's Special 301 status outside of the typical period for the annual Special 301 Report.  USTR may conduct OCRs of other trading partners as circumstances warrant. 


Joint Statement on Upcoming Signature of the Bilateral Agreement Between the European Union and the United States of America on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance
09/22/2017
WASHINGTON/BRUSSELS - The United States and European Union are pleased to announce the upcoming signature of the EU - U.S. agreement on prudential insurance and reinsurance measures (“the Agreement” hereafter) that will take place on the afternoon of Friday, September 22.  Both sides announced on 14 July 2017 their intention to sign the Agreement.
The Agreement represents a major step forward in U.S. - EU cooperation on insurance and reinsurance, conveying benefits to EU and U.S. insurers and reinsurers operating across the Atlantic, by offering them enhanced regulatory certainty, while maintaining robust consumer protections.
The Agreement – which is a ‘covered agreement’ in the meaning of the Dodd-Frank Act for the United States and an Agreement under Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the EU – addresses three areas of prudential insurance oversight: (1) reinsurance; (2) group supervision; and (3) the exchange of insurance information between supervisors.
With regard to reinsurance, the Agreement will lead to the elimination of collateral and local presence requirements for EU and U.S. reinsurers operating in each other's markets.
Regarding group supervision, by virtue of the Agreement, U.S. and EU insurers operating in the other’s markets will only be subject to worldwide prudential insurance group oversight by supervisors in their home jurisdiction. 
The Agreement also encourages insurance supervisory authorities in the United States and the EU to continue to exchange supervisory information on insurers and reinsurers that operate in the U.S. and EU markets. To support such information exchange between supervisory authorities, the Agreement includes model information sharing memorandum of understanding provisions.
The United States and the EU look forward to successful implementation of the Agreement, including through the Joint Committee established by the Agreement.  The Agreement provides meaningful benefits for U.S. and EU insurance consumers and for U.S. and EU insurers and reinsurers that operate in both markets.  The Parties will now move forward to provisional application in accordance with the Agreement.  The European Union will also follow the necessary steps, involving the Council and the European Parliament pursuant to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to formally conclude the Agreement.


USTR Announces Second Special Session of the U.S.-Korea FTA Joint Committee
09/22/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced the second special session of the Joint Committee under the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement. The first special session took place on August 22, 2017 in Seoul, South Korea. The second special session will be held in Washington, DC on October 4, 2017.
At the direction of President Trump, in July 2017 Ambassador Lighthizer called the first special session of the KORUS Joint Committee. In a letter to former Korean Trade Minister Joo Hyunghwan, Ambassador Lighthizer requested a dialogue to consider matters affecting the operation of the KORUS Agreement, including possible amendments and modifications to resolve several problems regarding market access in Korea for U.S. exports and, most importantly, to address the significant trade imbalance.


Treasury, USTR Sign Covered Agreement on Prudential Insurance and Reinsurance Measures with the European Union
09/22/2017
WASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today signed a covered agreement (the Agreement) on prudential insurance and reinsurance measures with the European Union (EU).  Treasury and USTR also jointly issued a policy statement clarifying how the United States views implementation of certain provisions of the Agreement. 
The Agreement addresses three areas of prudential insurance supervision:  group supervision, reinsurance, and exchange of information between supervisory authorities.  The Agreement affirms the U.S. system of insurance regulation, including the role of state insurance regulators as the primary supervisors of the business of insurance in the United States.
“After extensive stakeholder engagement and review, Treasury has concluded that the covered agreement with the EU is a win for the United States, its insurance industry, and U.S. policyholders,” said Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin.  “By providing regulatory clarity and reducing regulatory burden, the Agreement enables American companies to be more competitive in the EU, enhances opportunities for U.S. insurers and reinsurers at home and abroad, and furthers the administration’s goal of sustained economic growth.”
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said, “The Agreement with the EU levels the playing field for the U.S. insurance industry, thereby strengthening American competitiveness in the EU. The Agreement, which will be implemented consistent with the U.S. policy statement, promotes U.S. interests by protecting consumers here at home and relieving U.S. insurers of compliance with potentially redundant EU regulatory requirements.” 
The United States is committed to promoting the interests of U.S. insurers, U.S. reinsurers, U.S. insurance regulators, U.S. consumers, and the U.S. economy as the Agreement is implemented.  
The United States will continue its engagement with stakeholders and state regulators as implementation of the Agreement moves forward.
The final legal text of the U.S. - EU covered agreement is available here and the text of the U.S. policy statement is available here.
The joint U.S.- EU statement on the signature of the covered agreement is available here.


Trilateral Statement on the Conclusion of the Third Round of NAFTA Negotiations
09/27/2017
Ottawa, Canada – Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland, Mexican Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo, and United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today successfully concluded the third round of the renegotiation and modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The round took place in Ottawa, Canada from September 23 to 27, 2017.  Negotiators made significant progress in several areas through the consolidation of text proposals, narrowing gaps and agreeing to elements of the negotiating text.  Negotiators are now working from consolidated texts in most areas, demonstrating a commitment from all parties to advance discussions in the near term. In particular, meaningful advancements were made in the areas of telecommunications, competition policy, digital trade, good regulatory practices, and customs and trade facilitation.  Parties also exchanged initial offers in the area of market access for government procurement. 
Importantly, discussions were substantively completed in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), effectively concluding negotiations on that chapter pending specific outcomes in related discussions. The inclusion of a chapter on SMEs in a modernized NAFTA recognizes the contribution that SMEs make to our economies. The chapter will serve to support the growth and development of SMEs by enhancing their ability to participate in and benefit from the opportunities created by this Agreement, including through cooperative activities, information sharing, and the establishment of a NAFTA Trilateral SME Dialogue, involving the private sector, non-government organizations, and other stakeholders.  In addition to a specific chapter on SMEs, negotiators are also working on modernizing other aspects of the agreement that would benefit SMEs, including customs and trade facilitation, digital trade, and good regulatory practices. Discussions also touched upon energy trade, gender and Indigenous peoples.
We also advanced substantively in the competition chapter and expect to conclude the negotiation on this chapter prior to the next round.
NAFTA partners continue to be guided by a shared desire to create jobs, economic growth and opportunity for the people of our countries. Canada, the United States and Mexico remain committed to an accelerated timeline for negotiations. Ministers from all three countries have reiterated the mandate to the Chief Negotiators to continue on an accelerated path. Negotiators will continue their work and consult with their respective stakeholders in preparation for the fourth round of talks in Washington, D.C., from October 11 to 15, 2017.


Closing Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Third Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
09/27/2017
Ambassador Lighthizer:
Good Afternoon.
First, thank you Minister Freeland, Canadian government officials as well as Canadian citizens for the welcome and hospitality you have provided to us in hosting this third round.
I would like to also offer the thoughts and prayers of Americans for our friends in Mexico who are dealing with these terrible earthquakes. Mexico, of course, is a great and strong country, and we are sure that you will have the resilience to rebuild stronger and better than ever. But it’s a very tough time, and the United States is pleased to help, as well as our thoughts and prayers.
It is fitting that we have been negotiating here in Ottawa – a city known for its rich history in trade. Canada is celebrating 150 years in 2017, but for thousands of years the Ottawa River Valley has been a center of trade, and the present capital city is now also a center for trade policy. So it’s a special honor to be here in Ottawa.
Here at the close of round three of these negotiations, I join Minister Freeland and Secretary Guajardo in welcoming the progress that was made to this point.
I also join them in thanking the six or seven hundred people from our three governments who have been working of this issue. And I think it’s important for everyone to realize just how big this is. This is hundreds and hundreds of pages of very technical, technical work that covers really almost the entire of all of our economies, in one way or another. And there’s six or seven hundred people working weekends and very long hours to get to where we are, and they are dedicated to continuing until we get to the end of the process.
I also echo my counterparts’ remarks on closing the chapter on Small- and Medium- sized Enterprises. These businesses are the engines that drive each of our economies. They represent great ingenuity and hard work, turning businesses into dreams and into reality. They employ millions of our citizens. And, when they look to trade internationally, they first look to trading in North America. 
So it’s very, very important that we completed this chapter.
Additionally, significant progress continues to be made in numerous other areas, including competition policy, digital trade, State Owned Enterprises, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, customs, and telecommunications. But of course, there is an enormous amount of work to be done, including on some very difficult and contentious issues.
We continue to push for ways that will reduce the U.S. trade deficit. We are committed to a substantial renegotiation that reinvigorates U.S. industry and ensures reciprocal market access for American farmers, ranchers, and businesses.
The negotiations are continuing at an unprecedented pace, and the United States looks forward to hosting the next round in Washington, DC in about two weeks.
Minister Freeland, Secretary Guajardo – thank you both for your continued engagement in the NAFTA renegotiation process. I am hoping that our countries are capable of producing a new NAFTA that will fuel economic growth for all of us in North America in the years to come.
Thank you very much.


Joint Statement of the United States-Turkey Trade and Investment Council
09/29/2017
ANKARA, TURKEY - The United States-Turkey Trade and Investment Council met on September 12-13, 2017 in Ankara under the auspices of the bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA).  This was the tenth meeting of the Council held since the TIFA was signed in 1999.
Acting Deputy Undersecretary Mr. Hüsnü Dilemre led the Turkish delegation which included representatives from the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Food Agriculture and Livestock, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Culture and Tourism as well as representatives from the Patent Institute, Turkish Medical Devices and Pharmaceuticals Authority, Public Procurement Authority and Personal Data Protection Authority.
Mr. Daniel Mullaney, the Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East led the U.S. delegation, which included representatives from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Treasury, and the Department of Agriculture.
The U.S. and Turkish delegations discussed a variety of market access and related issues, with a view to exploring ways to expand bilateral trade, increase investment, and create jobs.
Issues discussed included the healthcare sector, agricultural trade, industrial goods trade, government procurement, the digital economy, intellectual property rights, and export credit cooperation. Both Sides also exchanged views on multilateral trade issues.
The Council acknowledged the importance of improving the overall private sector business climate between the two nations.  To this end, both sides committed to enhancing dialogues concerning agricultural and digital trade. Both Sides will also explore possible ways for further work on fields such as trade facilitation, export financing, innovation, advanced manufacturing and startups.
The Council agreed to follow up with concrete actions and agreed to hold the next formal Council meeting in the second half of 2018 in Washington.


Joint Statement on the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Council
10/03/2017
Kyiv, Ukraine – Today, First Vice Prime Minister – Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Stepan Kubiv and Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East L. Daniel Mullaney released the following joint statement after the seventh meeting of the United States - Ukraine Trade and Investment Council (TIC) held in Kyiv, Ukraine:
“Today we co-hosted the seventh meeting of the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Council to deepen our bilateral trade and investment relationship. Ukraine continues to take important steps to reform its economy and strengthen its business and investment environment.
The meeting opened with presentations from representatives of the business sector, underscoring the need for government and businesses to create partnerships based on common objectives. Ukraine also described efforts to expand and diversify its exports.
Regarding the business environment in Ukraine, the delegations reviewed Ukraine’s efforts to improve the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPR).  We recognize the importance of adequate IPR protection to stimulate and protect innovation. The United States welcomed Ukraine’s efforts to reform its tax system and customs procedures, emphasizing that modernization of the tax and customs authorities would be a crucial sign of Ukraine’s intent to strengthen its business environment.
In the second part of the meeting, the delegations explored steps to eliminate trade barriers between Ukraine and the United States. We discussed Ukraine’s reform of its regulatory system, and explored options for cooperation. Both delegations stressed the need to continue engagement at the technical expert level to generate a better understanding of Ukraine’s reforms, and to ensure the development of a regulatory regime consistent with Ukraine’s international obligations. 
In the next discussion, the Ukrainian delegation informed the United States of the current and future-planned privatization process in Ukraine, as well as Ukraine’s ongoing efforts to improve the investment environment in the energy sector. The United States urged Ukraine to continue its comprehensive plan of reforms directed at creating a favorable business climate, noting that improved predictability and transparency in the economy benefitted both domestic and foreign businesses. 
Before closing the meeting, we reviewed the technical assistance programs provided by the United States, and previewed future programs. The Government of Ukraine expressed its appreciation for the efforts of the United States Government. 
While both countries acknowledged the progress made during these discussions, much work remains. Participants in the Council meeting expressed hope in the opportunities and potential of the Ukrainian economy.  We committed to continue working together to support Ukraine’s reform efforts and to build a vibrant and flourishing bilateral economic relationship.  We look forward to holding the next TIC meeting in Washington, DC in 2018.”  
Background
After Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization in 2008, Ukraine and the United States signed the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Cooperation Agreement (TICA) in the same year.  The TICA established the TIC as the primary intergovernmental mechanism for discussion of trade and investment relations between the two countries.


USTR Lighthizer Statement on the Conclusion of the Second Special Session of the U.S.-Korea FTA Joint Committee
10/04/2017
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement on the conclusion of the second special session of the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement. Ambassador Lighthizer and Korean Trade Minister Hyun-chong Kim co-chaired the meeting today at the offices of the U.S. Trade Representative in Washington, DC.
“I initiated Joint Committee discussions at the direction of the President to improve outcomes under this agreement for all Americans.  I now look forward to intensified engagement with Korea in an expeditious manner to resolve outstanding implementation issues as well as to engage soon on amendments that will lead to fair, reciprocal trade.”
This second Joint Committee special session follows the first special session on August 22, 2017 in Seoul, South Korea. At President Trump’s direction, Ambassador Lighthizer in July 2017 initiated the Joint Committee process to seek to remove barriers to U.S. trade and consider needed amendments to KORUS. Click here to learn more about the KORUS Joint Committee.
U.S.-Korea Trade Background:
•           KORUS entered into force in March 2012.
•           The United States exported less to Korea in 2016 ($42.3 billion) than it did before the agreement was signed in 2011 ($43.5 billion), a decline of 2.7 percent.
•           Over the same period, the South Korean imports in the United States rose by nearly $20 billion.
•           Growth of U.S. services exports stalled between 2013 and 2016. 
•           From 2011 to 2016, the U.S. trade deficit in goods with Korea more than doubled, rising from $13.2 billion to $27.6 billion.
•           The U.S. deficit in the autos sector alone is $24 billion, an increase of 77% since 2011 and accounting for nearly 90% of the total $27.6 billion goods deficit in 2016.


Joint Statement on the United States-Moldova Joint Commercial Commission
10/05/2017
Chisinau, Moldova – Delegates from the United States and the Republic of Moldova met today in Chisinau under the auspices of the United States-Moldova Joint Commercial Commission (JCC).  Deputy Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Republic of Moldova Vitalie Iurcu and Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East L. Daniel Mullaney released the following joint statement after co-hosting this second meeting of the JCC:
“Reflecting our recently enhanced bilateral dialogue, the second meeting of the United States - Moldova Joint Commercial Commission facilitated our countries’ exchange of ideas and identified practical steps to deepen our bilateral trade and investment relationship. Both sides agreed that Moldova must continue to take important steps to reform its economy and strengthen its business and investment environment.
We discussed ways to increase bilateral trade cooperation.  In particular, we reviewed Moldova’s implementation of its Association Agreement with the European Union, consistent with its World Trade Organization obligations, as well as agricultural and industrial goods trade.
Further, we discussed Moldova’s government and regulatory reforms. Both delegations agreed that Moldova must continue, and accelerate when possible, its reform path to improve its business environment and to ensure the development of a regulatory regime consistent with the country’s international obligations.
Regarding Moldova’s business environment, the delegations reviewed Moldova’s efforts to improve the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPR). We recognize the importance of adequate IPR protection not only to stimulate and protect innovation, but also as a broad indicator of Moldova’s respect for the rule of law.  The importance of trust in the judicial sector is vital to a strong business environment.
The United States and the Republic of Moldova look forward to the continuation of the JCC to enhance bilateral trade and investment opportunities.”


Joint Statement on the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement Environment Chapter Meeting
10/05/2017
Singapore – Singapore Deputy Secretary (Policy) at the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources Ms. Amy Hing and Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Environment and Natural Resources Ms. Jennifer Prescott met in Singapore on October 4, 2017 to co-chair a meeting to review the implementation of the Environment chapter of the U.S.-Singapore Free Trade Agreement, which entered into force on January 1, 2004.
This senior-level bilateral meeting serves as an important opportunity to enhance and continue the robust and longstanding bilateral relationship and strategic partnership between the United States and Singapore, and highlights a shared commitment to environmental protection through free and fair trade. The co-chairs provided overviews of progress since their last meeting in 2015 and outlined their respective priorities and future plans.
Discussions focused primarily on enforcement of environmental laws, particularly to combat wildlife and timber trafficking in the region, recognizing Singapore’s efforts in combatting the illegal trade in wildlife. Both sides affirmed a commitment to fostering close bilateral and international cooperation on enforcement efforts. Additionally, the parties discussed issues such as those related to conservation and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) enforcement, as well as exchanging views on environmental laws and utilizing environmental technology.
Both sides affirmed their common interests in advancing trade and environmental priorities under the U.S.-Singapore Free Trade Agreement, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), and the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Both sides shared ideas to manage challenges facing the region including environmental management, water management, illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing and wildlife trafficking.  Both sides also looked forward to continued engagement in the years ahead.
Following the closed meeting, a public session with the environmental and business community was held to exchange views related to the implementation of the U.S.-Singapore Free Trade Agreement Environment Chapter.


USTR Lighthizer Welcomes Start of NAFTA Round 4, Announces New Developments
10/11/2017
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today marked the beginning of the fourth round of NAFTA renegotiations being held in Arlington, VA. During this negotiation round, officials will cover over two dozen negotiation topics. Building on the progress of NAFTA round three and the close of a chapter on Small- and Medium-sized Enterprises, the United States, Canada, and Mexico have now closed the chapter on Competition.
“I am pleased to welcome back Secretary Guajardo, Minister Freeland, and their teams to continue negotiations here in Washington,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Thus far, we have made good progress, and I look forward to several days of hard work.”
The new NAFTA Competition Chapter substantially updates the original NAFTA and goes beyond anything the United States has done in previous free trade agreements. The United States, Canada, and Mexico have agreed to obligations providing increased procedural fairness in competition law enforcement so that parties are given a reasonable opportunity to defend their interests and ensured of certain rights and transparency under each nation's competition laws. 
In an extension of previously announced dates, the negotiating round will now be October 11-17 to allow additional time for negotiations. Ambassador Lighthizer looks forward to welcoming Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and Mexican Secretary of Economy Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal for ministerial meetings and a trilateral press event on October 17. The press event is open to members of the media who have obtained a NAFTA Round 4 press credential; event information will be available to them in the coming days. 


Trilateral Statement on the Conclusion of the Fourth Round of NAFTA Negotiations
10/17/2017
Washington, DC – Today, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland, and Mexican Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso Guajardo successfully concluded the fourth round of the renegotiation and modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The round took place in Arlington, Virginia, from October 11-17, 2017, covering seven full days of discussions in nearly 30 groups.  
Building on the progress made in prior rounds, the United States, Canada, and Mexico have now substantively completed discussions in the Chapter on Competition.
Additionally, negotiators made progress in several other negotiating groups, including customs and trade facilitation, digital trade, good regulatory practices, and certain sectoral annexes.
Parties have now put forward substantially all initial text proposals.  New proposals have created challenges and Ministers discussed the significant conceptual gaps among the Parties. Ministers have called upon all negotiators to explore creative ways to bridge these gaps. To that end, the Parties plan on having a longer intersessional period before the next negotiating round to assess all proposals. Mexico will host the fifth round of talks in Mexico City from November 17-21, 2017. Additional negotiating rounds will be scheduled through the first quarter of 2018.
NAFTA partners are working hard to ensure the new agreement provides a solid framework to create jobs, economic growth and opportunity for the people of North America. Ministers have reaffirmed their mandate to Chief Negotiators to reach an agreement in a reasonable period of time. Negotiators will continue intersessional engagement, as well as intensive consultations with their respective stakeholders.


Closing Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Fourth Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
10/17/2017
Ambassador Lighthizer:
We have now had four rounds and 22 days of negotiations.  This has all been squeezed into just over two months.  The amount of work by all negotiators from the three countries is extraordinary. 
I should also thank the congressional and cleared advisors.  They have reviewed and helped us with hundreds of pages of very technical text.  Nearly everyone involved has been working 12-hour days more or less continuously. 
The United States had two objectives in these talks.  First, we wanted to update a 23-year-old agreement to reflect our modern economy.  Obvious areas for modernization included intellectual property, digital trade, anticorruption, technical standards, financial services, and others. 
Our President has been clear about our second objective.  NAFTA has resulted in a huge trade deficit for the United States and has cost us tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs.  The agreement has become very lopsided and needs to be rebalanced. We of course have a five-hundred billion dollar trade deficit. So for us, trade deficits do matter. And we intend to reduce them.
Frankly, I am surprised and disappointed by the resistance to change from our negotiating partners on both fronts.  We have made some headway on the first objective, but even here we have sometimes seen a refusal to accept what is clearly the best text available in spite of the countries having agreed to it in the past.
In certain cases, partners who agree to TPP have actually rejected its text here.  I would have thought by now we could have cleared chapters dealing with digital trade, telecommunications, anticorruption, and several sectoral annexes, for example.
As difficult as this has been, we have seen no indication that our partners are willing to make any changes that will result in a rebalancing and a reduction in these huge trade deficits.  Now I understand that after many years of one-sided benefits, their companies have become reliant on special preferences and not just comparative advantage.  Countries are reluctant to give up unfair advantage. 
But the President has been clear that if we are going to have an agreement going forward, it must be fair to American workers and businesses that employ our people at home.
Continuing to design a national manufacturing policy that is largely dependent on exports to the United States without balance cannot long continue.  It is important also to remember that to some extent, NAFTA is an investment agreement, and it is unreasonable to expect that the United States will continue to encourage and guarantee U.S. companies to invest in Mexico and Canada primarily for export to the United States. 
All parties must understand this and be reasonable if there is any chance for these negotiations to be successful.  I think we should all take the time between now and our next round to realistically assess what can be done to arrive at a balanced, modern agreement.  And I am hopeful that if we do that, we’ll have a successful conclusion to this project in due course.
I’d like to again thank both of my colleagues for your hard work, and I guess probably even more thank their colleagues [negotiators], who have done the lion share of the work over the last months.
I look forward to seeing you all in Mexico City.
Thank you.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Commends Achievements of Retiring Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Barbara Weisel
10/19/2017
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding the retirement of Barbara Weisel after 33 years of government service. Her service includes 23 years at USTR, with the past 13 years as Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Southeast Asia and the Pacific.
"I am grateful to Barbara for all of her expert counsel and hard work,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “For decades, Americans across the country have benefited from her commitment in expanding U.S. exports, removing trade barriers, and strengthening U.S. trade relations with the Asia-Pacific region. We wish her well in her new life chapter.”
Barbara Weisel began her USTR service in 1994. Starting as a Director for Japan Affairs, Barbara Weisel became Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Korea, then Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Southeast Asia, and beginning in 2004, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Southeast Asia and Pacific Affairs.  She held key leadership roles in advancing U.S. trade priorities and in key negotiations, including in negotiating the United States-Australia FTA, the United States-Singapore FTA, the ASEAN-United States Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement, and many other country and sector initiatives.


USTR Announces Unprecedented Action to Block Illegal Timber Imports from Peru
10/19/2017
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today directed the United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to block future timber imports from a Peruvian exporter based on illegally harvested timber found in its supply chain.  This enforcement action is being taken by the Interagency Committee on Trade in Timber Products from Peru (Timber Committee) for the first time under the United States – Peru Trade Promotion Agreement’s (PTPA) Annex on Forest Sector Governance (Forest Annex). 
Last year, the Timber Committee requested that Peru verify that a specific timber shipment from the company Inversiones Oroza complied with all applicable Peruvian laws and regulations.  The request was made following public reports that Oroza was engaging in illegal logging activities.  The verification process conducted by Peru revealed that significant portions of the Oroza shipment were not compliant with Peru’s law, regulations, and other measures on harvest and trade of timber products. The timber verification provision is a unique monitoring tool included in the PTPA to ensure Peruvian forestry laws are enforced throughout the supply chain. 
“This unprecedented enforcement action demonstrates President Trump’s strong commitment to enforcing our trade agreements and ensuring that trade is fair to the American people,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Illegal logging destroys the environment and undermines U.S. timber companies and American workers who are following the rules.  We will continue to closely monitor Peru’s compliance with its obligations under our trade agreement."
Background

The PTPA contains a unique Environment Chapter and Forest Annex, which includes a requirement for Peru to conduct audits of particular timber producers and exporters and verifications of particular shipments of wood products from Peru upon request from the United States. Further, the Agreement provides an illustrative list of actions the United States may take with respect to the shipment or enterprise that is the subject of the verification.  Based on the results of the verification and ongoing monitoring of the situation, the Timber Committee has directed that CBP deny entry to Oroza shipments for three years or until the Timber Committee determines that Oroza has complied with all applicable laws, regulations, and other measures of Peru governing the harvest of and trade in timber products, whichever is shorter.
While the Forest Annex has catalyzed meaningful reforms in Peru’s forestry sector, the verification process last year highlighted the systemic challenges that remain in combatting illegal logging in Peru.  In November 2016, the Government of Peru announced a set of unilateral actions to address ongoing challenges including holding all of the relevant actors involved in the Oroza shipment accountable, amending export documentation requirements to improve traceability, enhancing timber inspections, and implementing a timber tracking system in the Amazon corridor.  However, significant work remains for Peru to address its ongoing challenges to combatting illegal logging.  USTR and the Timber Committee will continue to monitor closely Peru’s implementation of both the commitments in the Environment Chapter and the actions announced in November 2016.  


USTR Announces New Enforcement Priorities for GSP
10/24/2017
New Efforts to Ensure All Countries Receiving Trade Benefits are Meeting Eligibility Criteria
 
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced a new effort to ensure beneficiary countries are meeting the eligibility criteria of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) trade preference program. 
This new effort includes a heightened focus on concluding outstanding GSP cases and a new interagency process to assess beneficiary country eligibility. This interagency process complements the current petition receipt and public input process for country practice reviews, which will remain unchanged. 
The new additional process will involve a triennial assessment by USTR and other relevant agencies of each GSP beneficiary country’s compliance with the statutory eligibility criteria.  If the assessment of a beneficiary country raises concerns regarding the country’s compliance with an eligibility criterion, the Administration may self-initiate a full country practice review of that country’s continued eligibility for GSP.  The first assessment period will focus on GSP beneficiary countries in Asia.  The Trump Administration will assess GSP beneficiary countries in other parts of the world in the second and third years of this process.
"Countries receiving U.S. trade benefits must meet the eligibility criteria established by Congress,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “By creating a more proactive process to assess beneficiary countries’ eligibility, the United States can ensure that countries that are not playing by the rules do not receive U.S. trade preferences.  This sets the correct balance for a system that helps incentivize economic reform in developing countries and achieve a level playing field for American businesses.”
Background
Under the GSP program, certain products from 120 beneficiary developing countries and territories can enter the United States duty-free.  In 2016, the total value of imports that entered the United States under GSP was $18.9 billion.  To qualify for GSP, a beneficiary country must meet 15 eligibility criteria established by Congress, including respecting arbitral awards in favor of U.S. citizens or corporations, combating child labor, respecting internationally recognized worker rights, providing adequate and effective intellectual property protection, and providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access.


U.S. Dolphin Safe-Labeling Requirements Found Compliant with WTO Rules
10/26/2017
In Major Win, U.S. Rights Vindicated After Years of Litigation with Mexico
Washington, D.C.—The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced that the World Trade Organization (WTO) has issued a complete and resounding victory for the United States in finding that U.S. “dolphin-safe” labeling requirements comply with WTO rules. 
For years, the United States has been defending its dolphin-safe labeling requirements in WTO dispute proceedings brought by Mexico, whose stakeholders employ a tuna fishing method involving chasing and capturing dolphins in nets. The United States has long argued that its requirements do not discriminate against any country.
The WTO panels have now decisively rejected Mexico’s claim that the United States discriminates against Mexican tuna product produced by chasing and capturing dolphins.  Instead, the panels found that the United States’ environmental measure does not discriminate; the labeling requirements prevent Mexican tuna product produced by chasing and capturing dolphins from being inaccurately marketed to U.S. consumers as “dolphin safe.”
“I am pleased that WTO panels have finally agreed with the overwhelming evidence that U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements are accurate and fair,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “The Trump Administration is committed to defending U.S. rights to enforce environmental measures that protect wildlife and facilitate fair trade.”
 
Background
Since 2008, Mexico has challenged the U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements as WTO-inconsistent because the requirements deny the label for tuna product produced by chasing and capturing dolphins (“setting on dolphins”). This is the fishing method that the Mexican fleet often elects to use to catch tuna.  In the original proceeding and the first compliance proceeding in this dispute, the WTO panel and Appellate Body did not agree with Mexico that setting on dolphins is “dolphin safe” but found that certain aspects of the U.S. labeling requirements were WTO-inconsistent.  The United States strongly disagreed that its labeling requirements breached WTO rules. However, to address the WTO findings, on March 22, 2016 NOAA issued an Interim Final Rule (IFR) that made changes.  The findings released today confirm that the dolphin-safe labeling requirements as amended by the IFR are consistent with relevant WTO obligations.
Separately, on May 22, 2017, following an arbitration proceeding based on the requirements that existed as of 2013, Mexico received WTO authorization to impose countermeasures on U.S. products at a level up to $163 million per year.  To date, Mexico has not applied any countermeasures on U.S. exports. 
The findings released today confirm that, because U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements are consistent with U.S. WTO obligations, Mexico should not be entitled to impose the countermeasures on U.S. goods.
After years of litigation, today’s panel reports demonstrate that U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements do not discriminate against any imported tuna products and therefore are WTO-consistent.  Under WTO rules, a panel report will be adopted if either party so requests within 60 days of the report’s circulation, or either party may appeal the report before it is adopted.


USTR Lighthizer Statement on the U.S.-India Bilateral Trade Policy Forum
10/27/2017
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer welcomed Indian Minister of Commerce and Industry, Sri Suresh Prabhu, for the annual U.S.-India Bilateral Trade Policy Forum (TPF). The Ministers and their delegations met to discuss a full agenda of bilateral trade issues.
“Our work under the Trade Policy Forum focused on achieving progress towards a more balanced trade relationship,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “U.S.-India trade has grown significantly in the last few years and has the potential to span every sector of the economy.  To increase reciprocal trade, we will continue to seek to identify and address trade barriers related to goods, including manufactured and agriculture, services and intellectual property rights. The U.S. objective is to increase trade flows between our two countries and to decrease our bilateral trade deficit. I am confident that with continued work, we will be able to accomplish these goals.” 
The United States pressed for strong outcomes across a number of areas, including non-science-based barriers to agricultural trade, continuing and new regulatory and technical barriers to trade that impact sales of U.S. high technology and other products, tariffs in a number of agricultural and industrial sectors, market access in services, and protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.  Ambassador Lighthizer also expressed concern about the $29.6 billion U.S. trade deficit with India, urging the Indian delegation to further liberalize the Indian economy to facilitate American exports.
Across many of these areas, both sides had differing views that could not be resolved immediately. However, there was emphasis that it was important to conduct discussions on these areas in the TPF and a commitment to redoubling efforts in the future across all areas.  There was agreement that it is critical to continue strong engagement over the coming months in order to achieve concrete outcomes before the next TPF.


U.S. Wins WTO Dispute on Indonesia’s Agricultural Restrictions
11/09/2017
Indonesia’s Appeal Rejected, Confirming Original Findings that Its Import Restrictions Are Against WTO Rules
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced that the World Trade Organization (WTO) confirmed that Indonesia’s import licensing regimes for horticultural products and animals and animal products are inconsistent with WTO rules.  This is a resounding victory for the United States that should result in increased export opportunities for U.S. farmers and ranchers, as well as Indonesian consumer access to high-quality U.S. agricultural products.
Indonesia maintains a complex web of import licensing requirements that restrict or prohibit imports of horticultural products and animal products from the United States.  These restrictions cost U.S. farmers and ranchers millions of dollars per year in lost export opportunities in Indonesia. 
In a report issued today, the WTO upheld the original panel findings in the dispute that all 18 Indonesian measures challenged by the United States are inconsistent with Indonesia’s WTO obligations and are not justified as legitimate public policy measures.  This is a complete victory for the United States and its co-complainant New Zealand.
“This is a significant win for U.S. farmers and ranchers,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Given Indonesia’s market size and U.S. competitiveness, we should be selling many more agricultural products to Indonesian consumers.  The Trump Administration will continue to use all our tools, including WTO dispute settlement and other mechanisms, to ensure that world-class U.S. agricultural products get fair access to markets around the world.”
Background
Since 2012, Indonesia has maintained unjustified and trade-restrictive licensing regimes for the importation of horticultural products and animals and animal products.  The U.S. products affected by these regimes include fruits, vegetables, flowers, dried fruits and vegetables, juices, cattle, beef, poultry, and other animal products.  At the request of USTR, the WTO established a panel to examine the U.S. complaint in 2015.
In a report publicly released in December 2016, the panel in this dispute found that each of the 18 challenged measures was inconsistent with Article XI:1 of the GATT 1994 because they restrict or prohibit importation of horticultural products or animals and animal products.  The panel also found that Indonesia failed to demonstrate that any of the challenged measures is justified under Articles XX of the GATT 1994. 
In February 2017, Indonesia appealed a number of the panel’s findings. The report issued today confirms the panel’s findings that each of the challenged measures is WTO-inconsistent.
Indonesia is the fourth most populous country in the world and an increasingly important export market for many U.S. agricultural products.  In 2016, Indonesia was the ninth-largest U.S. agricultural export destination by value, and Indonesia was the eighth-largest U.S. agricultural import source by value.  The United States exported over $2.6 billion in agricultural products to Indonesia and imported over $2.8 billion in agricultural products from Indonesia.  In 2016, exports of the horticultural products and animal products affected by Indonesia’s import licensing regimes totaled $170 million.


USTR Lighthizer Statement on the President’s New Paradigm for US-Indo-Pacific Trade
11/10/2017
Da Nang, Vietnam – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s speech on trade between the United States and the Indo-Pacific region, at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) CEO Summit:  
“The President spoke loud and clear: the era of trade compromised by massive state intervention, subsidies, closed markets and mercantilism is ending. Free, fair and reciprocal trade that leads to market outcomes and greater prosperity is on the horizon.
“President Trump understands that too many nations talk about free trade abroad, only to shield their economies behind tariff and non-tariff barriers at home. The United States will no longer allow these actions to continue, and we are willing to use our economic leverage to pursue truly fair and balanced trade.
“I look forward to doing as the President instructed me and to pursue policies that will improve the lives of our workers, farmers and ranchers.”


Joint Statement on the Second Meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group
11/15/2017
London, United Kingdom – UK Secretary of State for International Trade Dr. Liam Fox and United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer are pleased to announce the conclusion of the second meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group (the Working Group) in London. The delegations were led by officials from the Department for International Trade and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and included representatives from a wide range of U.S. and UK government agencies.
The Working Group, established in July 2017, is focusing on providing commercial continuity for U.S. and UK businesses, workers, and consumers as the UK leaves the EU and exploring ways to strengthen trade and investment ties ahead of the exit. The Working Group will also begin to lay the groundwork for a potential, future free trade agreement once the UK has left the EU, and explore areas in which the two countries can collaborate to promote open markets around the world.
The United States and the UK are working together to deepen their economic relationship. The Working Group will cover a range of topics, including industrial and agricultural goods; services, investment, financial services and digital trade; intellectual property rights and enforcement; regulatory issues related to trade; labor and environment/sustainable development; and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Some examples of areas where the United States and the UK are working closely include:
Promoting Small and Medium-sized Businesses:  The United States and the UK will establish a U.S.-UK Small and Medium-sized Enterprise (SME) Dialogue, to promote closer collaboration and the sharing of best practices on policies and programs to support SME businesses and export opportunities in each country’s market. The Working Group will also discuss best practices on encouraging entrepreneurship, growth, and innovation.
Promoting Intellectual Property:  Recognizing the importance of intellectual property to their respective economies and to the bilateral trade relationship, the UK and the United States have identified short-term cooperative initiatives to support each country's world-class intellectual property framework. Efforts are underway to develop joint educational tools and resources for SMEs to support the export of creative and innovative products and services between the two countries. There is also agreement to continue discussions on enforcement approaches, policy tools, and voluntary initiatives for addressing online piracy including the emerging challenge of illicit streaming devices and services.
Strengthening U.S.-UK Financial Regulatory Cooperation:  The United States and the UK will continue their already strong collaborative partnership on financial regulatory issues.  Accordingly, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and HM Treasury will work to enhance efforts to promote global financial stability and efficient markets, and to address financial continuity issues arising from the UK’s exit from the EU.
US/UK Technology Safeguards Agreement (UKSA) and Commercial Space Ports:  United States and UK agencies are working towards a U.S.-UK Technology Safeguards Agreement, which would establish the technical and legal safeguards to support U.S. space launch vehicle operations from UK launch sites.  U.S. and UK agencies are also exploring ways in which U.S. companies can participate in activities at UK commercial spaceports.
In September 2017, the United States and the UK also entered into an historic Science and Technology agreement, which establishes a foundation for enhanced research partnerships to further world-class science and technological innovation.
Secretary of State for International Trade Dr. Liam Fox said:
“Our working group underlines the shared interest in forging closer trade and investment ties between the UK and USA, and the practical steps we can take now to enable our two countries to do business with one another more easily.
 
“The USA is our single biggest trading partner and this dialogue will help provide certainty and confidence to businesses on both sides of the Atlantic, and identify existing barriers to trade. We are also laying the groundwork for a potential future free trade agreement which will help boost our mutual trade once we leave the EU.
“Our meetings have already seen agreement to focus on areas which will have a real impact on British businesses, from better enforcing their intellectual property rights to supporting the UK’s burgeoning SMEs.”
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said:
"I thank Dr. Fox and his team for hosting our U.S. team in London for the second meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group.
"The Working Group meetings have quickly developed into a key mechanism to deepen our already strong bilateral trade and investment relationship and to lay the groundwork for our future trade relationship.  This week our teams focused on specific ways in which we can expand opportunities for our businesses and workers, including for small and medium sized enterprises. The work has deepened our understanding of our respective trade and investment systems to prepare for our future relationship once the UK has left the EU.
 
"We look forward to building on our strong economic relationship to achieve free and fair trade and create good-paying jobs on both sides of the Atlantic."
Background
Trade between the two countries is already worth about $230 billion a year, the U.S. is the single biggest source of inward investment into the UK, and together there is around $1 trillion invested in each other's economies.


Trilateral Statement on the 5th Round of NAFTA Negotiations in Mexico City
11/15/2017
Mexico City, Mexico – NAFTA Chief Negotiators confirmed today that although the 5th Round of NAFTA negotiations will formally begin on November 17th, some negotiating groups will begin meeting on November 15th.

Nearly 30 negotiating groups will be meeting during the 5th Round, which will conclude on November 21st.

The three NAFTA Ministers agreed at the end of Round 4 to allow more space between rounds, in order to provide negotiators with enough time to analyze the proposals that all three countries have tabled so far and to conduct internal consultations.

In addition, NAFTA ministers met separately at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders Meetings in Da Nang, Vietnam, and instructed NAFTA Chief Negotiators to focus on advancing discussions on tabled proposals as much as possible. Given the substantive discussions held between Ministers at APEC, Ministers agreed not to attend the 5th Round so negotiators can continue to make important progress on key chapters advanced in Round 4.

Chief Negotiators from Mexico, United States and Canada will be in constant communication with their respective Ministers and will report on the progress reached in this round.



USTR Releases Updated NAFTA Negotiating Objectives
11/17/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released an updated summary of the negotiating objectives for the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
This update marks the first time USTR has released a second updated version of negotiating objectives. The new objectives update the previous objectives published on July 17, 2017, in accordance with Section 5(a)(1)(D) of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015.
“This update is an important next step in ensuring that the American people continue to know what the Trump Administration is seeking to achieve in a renegotiated NAFTA,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “If we are able to achieve these objectives, we will both modernize and rebalance NAFTA to better serve the interests of our workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.”
This latest transparency action builds on USTR’s unprecedented, rigorous consultations with Congress and private sector advisory committees throughout the renegotiation process.
USTR engagement on NAFTA renegotiations includes: 
Hundreds of hours and dozens of meetings in consultations with Congress, including over three dozen meetings directly with Members of Congress.
Continued transparency through on-going proactive consultations with members of the private sector, labor representatives, farmers, ranchers, and non-governmental organizations.  Including, extensive engagement with trade related advisory committees.
Three days of public hearings, featuring testimony from over 140 witnesses (June 27-29).
Careful review of over 12,000 public comments for crafting the NAFTA objectives.
Consultation meetings with the Senate Finance Committee and the House ways and Means Committee as well as meetings before the House and Senate Advisory Groups on Negotiations.
The updated objectives reflect the goals of text proposals the United States has tabled in the NAFTA negotiations with Canada and Mexico. The objectives include increased market access for agriculture, new transparency and administrative measures, expanded investment and intellectual property objectives, and completed negotiations on the chapters of Competition and Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises. The objectives retain the first-ever USTR objective for trade deficit reduction, in addition to trade distortion prevention measures.
USTR’s objectives underscore the goals of updating NAFTA to the best 21st century standards and rebalancing the benefits of the deal. Through the NAFTA renegotiations, the Administration seeks freer markets, fairer trade, and robust economic growth.
Background
At the direction of the President, on May 18, 2017, Ambassador Lighthizer sent a letter notifying Congress of the Administration’s intent to initiate NAFTA renegotiations. This action started the clock on a 90-day consultation period, during which extensive consultations took place with the public, the private sector, and Congress.
In accordance with the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, USTR released negotiating objectives at least 30 days prior to formal negotiations, which began on August 16, 2017.
To date, the NAFTA countries have held four rounds of negotiations, with a fifth round being held November 17-21, 2017.  During these negotiating rounds, the United States has put forward substantially all of the initial U.S. text proposals, including new text in 27 chapters of NAFTA. The Trump Administration remains committed to moving expeditiously toward a deal for fair, reciprocal trade for America’s workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.


Trilateral Statement on the Conclusion of the Fifth Round of NAFTA Negotiations
11/21/2017
Mexico City, Mexico – Today in Mexico City, the negotiating teams of Mexico, Canada, and the United States, concluded the Fifth Round of the renegotiation and modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), gathering nearly 30 negotiating groups.
In response to Ministerial instructions at the end of the Fourth Round, Chief Negotiators concentrated on making progress with the aim of narrowing gaps and finding solutions. As a result, progress was made in a number of chapters.
Chief Negotiators reaffirmed their commitment to moving forward in all areas of the negotiations, in order to conclude negotiations as soon as possible. Ministers have agreed to hold the Sixth Round of Negotiations from January 23-28, 2018, in Montreal, Canada. In the meantime, negotiators will continue their work in intersessional meetings in Washington, DC throughout mid-December and will report back to Chief Negotiators on the progress achieved.



USTR Lighthizer Statement on the Conclusion of the 5th Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
11/21/2017
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement on the conclusion of the fifth round of renegotiations in Mexico City, Mexico for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA):
“While we have made progress on some of our efforts to modernize NAFTA, I remain concerned about the lack of headway. Thus far, we have seen no evidence that Canada or Mexico are willing to seriously engage on provisions that will lead to a rebalanced agreement. Absent rebalancing, we will not reach a satisfactory result.
“A rebalanced, updated NAFTA will promote greater prosperity for American workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses and strengthen the North American region as a whole.  Our teams will be meeting again next month in Washington. I hope our partners will come to the table in a serious way so we can see meaningful progress before the end of the year.”


USTR Statement on Report of Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity
11/30/2017
Berlin, Germany – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released the following statement in response to the Report of the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity, concluded in Berlin, Germany today. The Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity commenced under the G20 Leaders’ call for a forum to address steel excess capacity worldwide.
“The United States welcomes international engagement and initial steps in addressing steel excess capacity issues. Progress on recommendations, information sharing plans and additional scheduled meetings must give way to real policy changes.  Much work remains.
“The Forum has not made meaningful progress yet on the root causes of steel excess capacity, and pointing to short-term developments and worn out promises will not cure the fundamental causes of the problem. Addressing the ongoing steel excess capacity situation will require immediate and sustained concrete action by all steelmakers, including allowing markets to function, removing market-distorting subsidies and other forms of state support, and treating state-owned enterprises and private steelmakers equally.  This view is shared by nearly all Forum members, and we welcome this recognition. 
“The Report issued today contains many helpful policy prescriptions, but it fails to highlight the recurring failure of some countries to implement true market-based reforms in the steel sector.  In addition, the Report does not contain complete information regarding market-distorting measures in certain economies and does not set forth a clear pathway for filling such data gaps.  The Report erroneously suggests that simply setting capacity reduction targets has been an effective response to the crisis, when in fact meaningful progress can only be achieved by removing subsidies and other forms of state support and letting markets do their work.
“The United States remains fully engaged in working with Forum members for strong actions to address the root causes of the global steel excess capacity crisis.  At the same time, the United States will not hesitate to use the tools available under legal authorities to firmly respond to the causes and consequences of steel excess capacity.”  


United States and Egypt Agree to Further Trade Cooperation
12/05/2017

Cairo, Egypt – The United States and Egypt met today under the bilateral Trade and Investment Council.  The Council, established under the 1999 Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), discussed ways to further expand fair and reciprocal trade and investment between the two countries. 
 
The United States used the meeting to update Egypt on the Administration’s priorities on trade, including opening markets and enforcing trade rules. The United States also underscored the importance the Administration places on deepening trade ties with countries in the Europe and Middle East region, including Egypt. 
 
The Council acknowledged the importance of improving the overall private sector business climate facing U.S. and Egyptian companies.  During the meeting, U.S. and Egyptian officials agreed to work together to address outstanding bilateral trade issues, including those related to market access, standards, labor, and intellectual property protection. They agreed to devise wherever possible new ways to promote trade between the two nations.
Background:
 
In 2016, the United States had a $2 billion goods trade surplus with Egypt. U.S. good exports totaled $3.5 billion, with top categories including machinery, mineral fuels, vehicles, aircraft, and electrical machinery.  U.S. goods imports from Egypt totaled $1.5 billon, with top categories including woven apparel, knit apparel, mineral fuels, carpets and other textile coverings, and art and antiques. In 2015, U.S. services exports to Egypt were $1.2 billion and U.S. services imports were $2 million. 


United States and Australia Meet to Review Implementation of Bilateral Free Trade Agreement
12/08/2017
Washington, DC – On December 6, 2017, officials from the United States and Australia held a meeting of the U.S.-Australia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) Joint Committee to review the implementation of the FTA.  Both sides agreed that the FTA is a cornerstone of the trade and investment relationship between the two countries and noted that bilateral goods and services trade has increased substantially for both countries since the agreement's entry into force.   Both sides further noted that a strong bilateral trade relationship is an important element of the close U.S.-Australia alliance.  The two sides reviewed the implementation of the agreement, including specific issues related to trade in goods and in services and issues related to intellectual property and investment.  They also received a report on the recent meeting of the FTA’s Committee on Sanitary and Phyto-Sanitary (SPS) Measures and its efforts to address SPS issues affecting agricultural trade between the United States and Australia.  The two sides agreed to meet again to review the FTA’s implementation in 2018. 
Background 
The U.S.-Australia FTA entered into force on January 1, 2005.   Since 2005, exports of U.S. goods to Australia have increased by 59 percent and exports of U.S. services to Australia have increased by 216 percent.  Since the FTA entered into force, the U.S. goods trade surplus with Australia has increased by 97 percent to $13 billion, and the U.S. services trade surplus with Australia has increased by 380 percent to $14 billion.  Two-way trade between the United States and Australia reached $61 billion in 2016.  In 2016, Australia was the United States’ 17th largest goods export market. 


Opening Plenary Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the WTO Ministerial Conference
12/11/2017
Ambassador Lighthizer:
I would like to start by thanking the government of Argentina for hosting MC11, and Minister Malcorra, Director General Azevedo, and their staffs for their excellent work.  We appreciate all the effort over many months that go into creating a conference of this magnitude. 
In the brief time I have, I would like to make a few basic points. 
First, the WTO is obviously an important institution.  It does an enormous amount of good, and provides a helpful negotiating forum for Contracting Parties. 
But, in our opinion, serious challenges exist.
Second, many are concerned that the WTO is losing its essential focus on negotiation and becoming a litigation-centered organization.  Too often members seem to believe they can gain concessions through lawsuits that they could never get at the negotiating table.  We have to ask ourselves whether this is good for the institution and whether the current litigation structure makes sense.
Third, we need to clarify our understanding of development within the WTO.  We cannot sustain a situation in which new rules can only apply to the few, and that others will be given a pass in the name of self-proclaimed development status.  There is something wrong, in our view, when five of the six richest countries in the world presently claim developing country status.  Indeed, we should all be troubled that so many Members appear to believe that they would be better off with exemptions to the rules.  If in the opinion of a vast majority of Members playing by current WTO rules makes it harder to achieve economic growth, then clearly serious reflection is needed.
Fourth, it is impossible to negotiate new rules when many of the current ones are not being followed.  This is why the United States is leading a discussion on the need to correct the sad performance of many Members in notifications and transparency.  Some Members are intentionally circumventing these obligations, and addressing these lapses will remain a top U.S. priority.
Fifth, the United States believes that much can and should be done at the WTO to help make markets more efficient.  We are interested in revitalizing the standing bodies to ensure they are focused on new challenges, such as chronic overcapacity and the influence of state-owned enterprises.  Further, we are working closely with many Members in committee and elsewhere to address real-world problems such as SPS barriers.
We believe that all of us are here primarily to represent our own citizens to secure rules that will best help them. As President Trump said in his U.N. speech, institutions like this function best when all sovereign nations acting in their own best interest pull together and find ways that permit us all to prosper.
Finally, the United States looks forward to working with all Members who share our goal of using the WTO to create rules that will lead to more efficient markets, more trade and greater wealth for our citizens.  Such outcomes will build public support not only for open markets, but for the WTO itself.
I’d like to end where I began and thank the Director General for all his work, and Minister Malcorra for their incredible work to produce a successful MC11.


USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Signing of Agriculture Maximum Residue Level Joint Statement at MC11
12/12/2017
Buenos Aires, Argentina – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement following the signing of a joint statement on agriculture Maximum Residue Levels (MRLs) at the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11) of the World Trade Organization (WTO):
“The United States is pleased to work with WTO Members to solve important trade problems affecting American farmers. The signing of this WTO joint statement demonstrates our commitment to farmers to fix missing and misaligned pesticide maximum residue levels for agriculture exports. For too long, unjustified sanitary and phytosanitary barriers have impeded access to safe tools and technologies that enhance food security, lower risks to health and the environment, and increase exports and farmer incomes. Going forward, we intend to build on our work in the WTO SPS Committee to address missing and misaligned MRLs. Our continuous goal is to improve farm productivity, facilitate safer food trade, and give farmers greater access to export markets around the world.”


Joint Statement by the United States, European Union and Japan at MC11
12/12/2017
Mrs. Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan and Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative met in Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic on the 12th of December 2017 and agreed to strengthen our commitment to ensure a global level playing field.
They said:
“We shared the view that severe excess capacity in key sectors exacerbated by government-financed and supported capacity expansion, unfair competitive conditions caused by large market-distorting subsidies and state owned enterprises, forced technology transfer, and local content requirements and preferences are serious concerns for the proper functioning of international trade, the creation of innovative technologies and the sustainable growth of the global economy.
“We, to address this critical concern, agreed to enhance trilateral cooperation in the WTO and in other forums, as appropriate, to eliminate these and other unfair market distorting and protectionist practices by third countries.”


USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce
12/13/2017
Buenos Aires, Argentina – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement on the Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce agreed and issued by 70 countries at the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11) of the World Trade Organization (WTO): 
“The United States is pleased to partner with 70 WTO Members to initiate exploratory work on negotiations on electronic commerce issues in the WTO.  The digital economy serves as a critical engine of domestic and global economic growth, and all countries would benefit from the development of strong, market-based rules in this area.  The launch of this initiative marks a significant milestone, with a large group of countries now working together to move forward in this important area within the WTO. Initiatives like this among like-minded countries offer a positive way forward for the WTO in the future.”


Joint Statement on the Council Meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
12/13/2017
Almaty, Kazakhstan - Today, senior officials of the governments of the United States, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan met for the Council Meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA).  The government of Afghanistan participated as observers.
The participants affirmed that the TIFA is a high-level platform for dialogue to strengthen trade and investment ties between the United States and the countries of Central Asia.
During the plenary meeting, participants discussed the trade, transit, and investment environment in Central Asia and the United States.  Participants focused on expanding fair and reciprocal trade and creating a welcoming environment for business in order to facilitate regional private sector activity. In addition, they discussed Central Asian exports under the implementation of the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences for developing countries.
Under the TIFA Council Meeting, the Working Groups on Customs, Standards, and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures met on December 11. The expert-level working groups proposed using the following WTO agreements as a framework for further consideration of international best practices: the Trade Facilitation Agreement; the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures; and the Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement. The groups also proposed identifying topics appropriate for considering regionalized approaches to trade-facilitating rules and procedures, such as harmonization or mutual recognition and obstacles to such consideration.
Further the participants proposed creating an Intellectual Property Rights Working Group, to strengthen cooperation, interaction and protection of intellectual property rights.
During the TIFA Council Meeting, the participants discussed and agreed to these proposals and highlighted the importance of enhancing efforts to increase U.S. - Central Asia trade.
The Afghanistan delegation proposed to become a full member of this platform.
The participants agreed that the next meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia TIFA Council would take place in the United States on a date to be determined.
The TIFA Council expressed its deep appreciation to the Kazakh government for its hospitality.             


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the Conclusion of the WTO Ministerial Conference
12/14/2017
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement on the conclusion of the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11) of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Buenos Aires, Argentina:
“The United States expresses its deep appreciation to the Government and people of Argentina for the exceptional organization and warm hospitality we received while at MC11.  In particular, we applaud the diligent work of Director General Roberto Azevedo, Minister Susana Malcorra, and their staffs.  The fact that one WTO Member with an extreme position chose to block a short Ministerial Declaration expressing shared views is no reflection on the excellent work of Minister Malcorra or her team. 
“MC11 will be remembered as the moment when the impasse at the WTO was broken.  Many members recognized that the WTO must pursue a fresh start in key areas so that like-minded WTO Members and their constituents are not held back by the few Members that are not ready to act.  In this regard, the United States is pleased to work with willing Members on e-commerce, scientific standards for agricultural products, and the challenges of unfair trade practices that distort world markets.  Further, the United States intends to continue pushing meaningful disciplines on harmful fisheries subsidies based on guidance agreed to by Ministers at Buenos Aires.  We are proud to defend the interests of U.S. stakeholders at the WTO, including our farmers and ranchers, who need a result on agriculture that is based on the realities of today, rather than a 16-year-old, outdated and unworkable framework.
“The United States looks forward to working with those WTO Members who are seeking free and fair trade through the implementation of WTO agreements and decisions as negotiated by Members.  We welcome the opportunity in 2018 to continue to discuss how we can improve the functioning of the WTO and to ensure that it achieves its objectives for the benefit of all Members.”


USTR Lighthizer Announces Results of Special 301 Out-of-Cycle Review of Thailand
12/15/2017
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced the conclusion and results of the Special 301 Out-of-Cycle Review (OCR) of Thailand, including moving Thailand from the Priority Watch List to the Watch List.
“A key objective of the Trump Administration’s trade policy is ensuring that U.S. owners of intellectual property (IP) have a full and fair opportunity to use and profit from their IP around the globe,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “The key to promoting innovation is protecting intellectual property. We welcome the corrective actions that Thailand has taken and look forward to continuing to work with Thailand to resolve our remaining IP concerns.”
The Trump Administration has been closely engaging with Thailand on improving IP protection and enforcement as part of the bilateral U.S.-Thailand Trade and Investment Framework Agreement.  This engagement has yielded results on resolving U.S. IP concerns across a range of issues, including on enforcement, patents and pharmaceuticals, trademarks, and copyright.
For example, Thailand established an interagency National Committee on Intellectual Property Policy and a subcommittee on enforcement against intellectual property infringement, led by the Prime Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister, respectively.  This strong level of interest from the highest levels of the government led to improved coordination among government entities, as well as enhanced and sustained enforcement efforts to combat counterfeit and pirated goods throughout the country.
Thailand also has been taking steps to address backlogs for patent and trademark applications, including significantly increasing the number of examiners and streamlining regulations.  In addition, Thailand joined the Madrid Protocol, making it easier for U.S. companies to apply for trademarks, and took steps to address concerns regarding online piracy affecting the U.S. content industry.
Other results include a commitment from Thailand to improve transparency related to pharmaceutical issues, such as taking stakeholder input into account as it considers amendments to its Drug Act and providing interested stakeholders with regular consultation opportunities with the Thai Food and Drug Administration.
In light of Thailand’s progress, USTR is closing the OCR that was initiated on September 15, 2017, and is moving Thailand from the Special 301 Priority Watch List to the Watch List.  The United States will continue to engage bilaterally with Thailand to address other remaining IP concerns, which are highlighted in the 2017 Special 301 Report.
 
Background
The Special 301 Report is the result of an annual review of the state of intellectual property (IP) protection and enforcement in U.S. trading partners around the world, which the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) conducts pursuant to Section 182 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, and the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. § 2242).
USTR uses Out-of-Cycle Reviews (OCRs) to encourage progress on IP issues.  Successful resolution of specific IP issues of concern can lead to a change in a trading partner's Special 301 status outside of the typical period for the annual Special 301 Report.  Conversely, failure to address identified IP concerns, or further deterioration as to an IP-related concern within the specified OCR period, can lead to an adverse change in status.  USTR may conduct OCRs with trading partners as circumstances warrant. 


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on Final Passage of the Tax Reform Bill
12/20/2017
“This tax cut is a monumental win for American workers and businesses. I applaud President Trump and Congressional Republicans for their leadership in delivering a simpler and fairer tax code that will create jobs and grow our economy. This tax plan is a cornerstone of President Trump’s broader economic strategy to promote prosperity. It will help make American businesses more competitive at home and abroad. It will contribute to reducing the trade deficit, increasing exports and raising the income of our workers, farmers and ranchers.”



Trump Administration Enforces Trade Preference Program Eligibility
12/22/2017
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer applauded President Trump’s decision today to suspend some of Ukraine’s benefits under the Generalized System of Preferences Program (GSP), restore GSP eligibility for Argentina, and restore eligibility for The Gambia and Swaziland to the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).
"President Trump has sent a clear message that the United States will vigorously enforce eligibility criteria for preferential access to the U.S. market,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Beneficiary countries choose to either work with USTR to meet trade preference eligibility criteria or face enforcement actions. The Administration is committed to ensuring that other countries keep their end of the bargain in our trade relationships.”
Ukraine’s partial suspension from GSP stems from its failure to provide adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) despite years of encouragement and assistance from the U.S. Government.  The President has decided to provide 120 days’ notice in this case because the Government of Ukraine has a viable path to remedy the situation, including improving the current legal regime governing royalty reimbursement to right holders’ organizations.  
Argentina is being reinstated to the GSP program effective January 1, 2018 following resolution of certain arbitral disputes with U.S. companies, new commitments by the Argentine government to improve market access for U.S. agricultural products, and improved protection and enforcement of IPR.  Due to certain remaining IPR issues, the restoration of GSP benefits for Argentina will not apply to all eligible products.
The Gambia lost its AGOA eligibility in 2015 due to human rights abuses and the deterioration of the rule of law.  Following democratic elections in December 2016, The Gambia has made progress in strengthening the rule of law, improving human rights, and supporting political pluralism. 
Swaziland lost AGOA eligibility in 2015 due to concerns over restrictions on the freedoms of peaceful assembly, association, and expression.  The United States set a series of benchmarks related to lifting restrictions on freedoms of assembly, association, and expression Swaziland would need to meet to regain AGOA eligibility.  Swaziland met the last of these benchmarks in November 2017.
USTR is conducting a separate AGOA out-of-cycle review for Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda in response to a petition asserting that their phased ban on imports of used clothing is negatively impacting U.S. jobs. This review is ongoing.
Background
Under U.S. trade preferences programs, including GSP and AGOA, certain products can enter the United States duty-free if beneficiary countries meet the eligibility criteria established by Congress. GSP criteria include, among others, respecting arbitral awards in favor of U.S. citizens or corporations, combating child labor, respecting internationally recognized worker rights, providing adequate and effective intellectual property protection, and providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access.  AGOA eligibility criteria include making progress toward establishing political pluralism, the rule of law, and a market-based economy; elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment; protection of internationally recognized worker rights; a system to combat corruption and bribery; and economic policies to reduce poverty. 
For more information on U.S. trade preference programs, visit the USTR website here.


United States, Korea to Hold Amendment Negotiations on KORUS FTA
12/28/2017
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced that negotiations on amendments and modifications of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) will be held in Washington, D.C. on January 5, 2018.
The United States delegation at the meeting will be led by Michael Beeman, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Japan, Korea and APEC. The Republic of Korea delegation at the meeting will be led by Ms. Myung-hee Yoo, Director General from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE). With the recent completion of related domestic procedures in Korea, both delegations are meeting on January 5, 2018 to engage and advance negotiations to improve the KORUS FTA.
Background:
At the direction of President Trump, in July 2017 Ambassador Lighthizer initiated talks to consider matters affecting the operation of the KORUS FTA, including amendments and modifications to resolve several problems regarding market access in Korea for U.S. exports and, most importantly, to address the significant trade imbalance.  In 2017, the United States and Korea convened two specials sessions of the KORUS Joint Committee, which were held on August 22, 2017 and October 4, 2017.   


2018年
Statement on the Conclusion of Meeting on the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) FTA
01/05/2018
Washington, D.C. – On January 5, 2018, officials from the United States and the Republic of Korea met at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to advance talks related to the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement, including negotiations on Agreement modifications and amendments. The United States delegation was led by Michael Beeman, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Japan, Korea and APEC.  The Republic of Korea delegation was led by Ms. Myung-hee Yoo, Director General from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE).
Both sides engaged on their priority areas of interest during the day-long session.  The United States discussed proposals to move towards fair and reciprocal trade in key industrial goods sectors, such as autos and auto parts, as well as to resolve additional cross-cutting and sector-specific barriers impacting U.S. exports.
At the conclusion of the session today, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer said, “We have much work to do to reach an agreement that serves the economic interests of the American people. Our goals are clear: we must achieve fair and reciprocal trade between our two nations.  We will move forward as expeditiously as possible to achieve this goal.” 
Both sides agreed to follow-up to discuss timing for the next meeting in the very near term.
 
Background:
At the direction of President Trump, in July 2017 Ambassador Lighthizer initiated talks to consider matters affecting the operation of the KORUS FTA, including amendments and modifications to resolve several problems regarding market access in Korea for U.S. exports and, most importantly, to address the significant trade imbalance.  In 2017, the United States and Korea convened two specials sessions of the KORUS Joint Committee, which were held on August 22, 2017 and October 4, 2017.   This meeting was the first held between both sides since the completion of related domestic procedures in Korea in late December 2017.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the Rural Prosperity Task Force Report
01/08/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding the report to the President from the Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity. Chaired by Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, the interagency taskforce includes USTR Lighthizer and secretaries and officials from over 20 cabinet agencies and executive branch offices. 
“President Trump’s economic strategy is designed to create jobs and promote prosperity for all Americans, including those who live and work in our rural communities.  Trade is essential to agriculture and rural prosperity, so if we are to open up new economic opportunities for rural communities, we must increase export market access, tear down foreign trade barriers, and enforce our trade laws to make sure other countries play by the rules.  USTR is committed to this administration-wide effort to break down barriers for rural America, grow our economy and ensure the United States remains the world’s leader in agriculture trade.”
The recommendations provided to the President focus on the following areas: E-Connectivity, Quality of Life, Rural Workforce, Technology, and Economic Development. To read the Report from the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity, click here. 


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the Canadian WTO Challenge to Trade Remedies
01/10/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement in regard to the case filed by Canada with the World Trade Organization (WTO) against U.S. disciplinary practices and procedures:
“Canada’s new request for consultations at the WTO is a broad and ill-advised attack on the U.S. trade remedies system.  U.S. trade remedies ensure that trade is fair by counteracting dumping or subsidies that are injuring U.S. workers, farmers, and manufacturers.  Canada’s claims are unfounded and could only lower U.S. confidence that Canada is committed to mutually beneficial trade. 
“Canada is acting against its own workers’ and businesses’ interests. Even if Canada succeeded on these groundless claims, other countries would primarily benefit, not Canada.  For example, if the U.S. removed the orders listed in Canada’s complaint, the flood of imports from China and other countries would negatively impact billions of dollars in Canadian exports to the United States, including nearly $9 billion in exports of steel and aluminum products and more than $2.5 billion in exports of wood and paper products.  Canada’s claims threaten the ability of all countries to defend their workers against unfair trade.  Canada’s complaint is bad for Canada.”


2017 Notorious Markets List Spotlights Global Piracy and Counterfeiting, Defends American Products and Workers
01/12/2018
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced the findings of the 2017 Special 301 Out-of-Cycle Review of Notorious Markets, also known as the Notorious Markets List (List).  The List highlights 25 online markets and 18 physical markets around the world that are reported to be engaging in and facilitating substantial copyright piracy and trademark counterfeiting. 
This activity harms the American economy by undermining the innovation and intellectual property rights (IPR) of U.S. owners of IPR in foreign markets.  Imports in counterfeit and pirated physical products is estimated at nearly half a trillion dollars, or around 2.5% of global imports.
“Marketplaces worldwide that contribute to illicit trade cause severe harm to the American economy, innovation, and workers,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer. “The Trump Administration is committed to holding intellectual property right violators accountable and intensifying efforts to combat counterfeiting and piracy.” 
The 2017 Notorious Markets List maintains its special focus on the distribution of pirated content and counterfeit goods online. This year, the report highlights illicit streaming devices as an emerging piracy model of growing concern. The report also calls on several e-commerce platforms to improve takedown procedures, proactive measures, and cooperation with right holders—particularly small and medium-sized businesses—to decrease the volume and prevalence of counterfeit and pirated goods on their platforms.   
Over the past year, some market owners and operators have made efforts to address the widespread availability of pirated or counterfeit goods in their markets.  Some governments also continue to institute novel strategies to combat piracy and counterfeiting. These strategies include: voluntary initiatives with advertising networks to cut off financial support for websites devoted to copyright infringement; installing intellectual property enforcement centers on-location in high-priority physical markets; and using skills training to reorient former counterfeit sellers towards operating legitimate businesses. At the same time, we vigilantly monitor marketplaces with a record of piracy and counterfeit goods. 
To read the full report, click here. 
Additional Background Information about the Notorious Markets List
USTR first identified notorious markets in the Special 301 Report in 2006.  Since February 2011, USTR has published annually the Notorious Markets List separately from the Special 301 Report, pursuant to an “Out-of-Cycle Review of Notorious Markets,” to increase public awareness and help market operators and governments prioritize IPR enforcement efforts that protect American businesses and their workers. 
The Out-of-Cycle Review of Notorious Markets identifies particularly notable online and physical markets that facilitate unfair competition with U.S. products. The report does not constitute an exhaustive list of all markets reported to deal in pirated or counterfeit goods around the world, nor does it reflect findings of legal violations or the U.S. Government’s analysis of the general IPR protection and enforcement climate in the country concerned. Such analysis is contained in the annual Special 301 Report issued at the end of April each year.
This announcement concludes the 2017 Out-of-Cycle Review of Notorious Markets, which USTR initiated on August 16, 2017, through publication in the Federal Register of a request for public comments.  The U.S. government agencies represented on the USTR-chaired Special 301 Subcommittee of the Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) developed the Notorious Markets List based primarily on information received in response to the Federal Register request.  The request for comments and the public’s responses is online at www.regulations.gov, Docket number USTR-2017-0015.  Information about Special 301, the TPSC process, and other trade issues is available at www.ustr.gov. 


USTR Releases Annual Reports on China’s and Russia’s WTO Compliance
01/19/2018
Washington, DC – China and Russia have failed to embrace the market-oriented  economic policies championed by the World Trade Organization (WTO) and are not living up to certain key commitments they made when they joined the WTO, the U.S. Trade Representative said in annual reports released today on each country’s compliance with WTO rules.
The reports, delivered to Congress, are required by law and assess China’s and Russia’s implementation of their respective WTO commitments.  China became a member of the WTO in 2001 and Russia joined the WTO in 2012.
“The United States is committed to working with all WTO Members who share our goal of using the WTO to create and enforce rules that lead to more efficient markets, reciprocal benefits and greater wealth for our citizens,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.  “However, as these two reports show, the global trading system is threatened by major economies who do not intend to open their markets to trade and participate fairly.  This practice is incompatible with the market-based approach expressly envisioned by WTO members and contrary to the fundamental principles of the WTO.”
Selected highlights of the 2017 annual report on China’s WTO compliance:
“Today, almost two decades after it pledged to support the multilateral trading system of the WTO, the Chinese government pursues a wide array of continually evolving interventionist policies and practices aimed at limiting market access for imported goods and services and foreign manufacturers and service suppliers.”
“China’s regulatory authorities do not allow U.S. companies to make their own decisions about technology transfer and the assignment or licensing of intellectual property rights.  Instead, they continue to require or pressure foreign companies to transfer technology as a condition for securing investment or other approvals.”
“China is determined to maintain the state’s leading role in the economy and to continue to pursue industrial policies that promote, guide and support domestic industries while simultaneously and actively seeking to impede, disadvantage and harm their foreign counterparts, even though this approach is incompatible with the market-based approach expressly envisioned by WTO members and contrary to the fundamental principles running throughout the many WTO agreements.”
“Many of the policy tools being used by the Chinese government…are largely unprecedented, as other WTO members do not use them, and include a wide array of state intervention and support designed to promote the development of Chinese industry in large part by restricting, taking advantage of, discriminating against or otherwise creating disadvantages for foreign enterprises and their technologies, products and services.”
Selected highlights of the 2017 annual report on Russia’s WTO compliance:
“So far, Russia’s actions strongly indicate that it has no intention of complying with many of the promises it made to the United States and other WTO Members.  This trend is very troubling.”
“Russia has done little in 2017 to demonstrate a commitment to the principles of the WTO or to many of the specific commitments that it made” in the negotiations leading to Russia’s membership in the WTO.”
“The agricultural sector continues to be one of the most challenging sectors for U.S. exporters.  In addition to the import ban on nearly all agricultural goods from the United States and other WTO Members, Russia continues to erect barriers to U.S. agricultural exports.”
“In 2017, notwithstanding a few tariff reductions, Russia increasingly appeared to turn away from the principles of the WTO, instead turning inward through the adoption of local content policies and practices.  Russia continued to rely on arbitrary behind-the-border measures and other discriminatory practices to exclude U.S. exports.”


President Trump Approves Relief for U.S. Washing Machine and Solar Cell Manufacturers
01/22/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced today that President Trump has approved recommendations to impose safeguard tariffs on imported large residential washing machines and imported solar cells and modules.
USTR made the recommendations to the President based on consultations with the interagency Trade Policy Committee (TPC) in response to findings by the independent, bipartisan U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) that increased foreign imports of washers and solar cells and modules are a substantial cause of serious injury to domestic manufacturers.
“These cases were filed by American businesses and thoroughly litigated at the International Trade Commission over a period of several months,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “The ITC found that U.S. producers had been seriously injured by imports and made several recommendations to the President. Upon receiving these recommendations, my staff and I conducted an exhaustive process which included opportunities to brief in person and through public comments, public hearings, and meetings with senior representatives. Based on this information, the Trade Policy Committee developed recommendations, which the President has accepted. The President’s action makes clear again that the Trump Administration will always defend American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses in this regard.”
For imports of large residential washers, the President approved applying a safeguard tariff-rate quota for three years with the following terms:
 
 	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3
First 1.2 million units of imported finished washers	20%	18%	16%
All subsequent imports of finished washers	50%	45%	40%
Tariff on covered parts	50%	45%	40%
Covered parts excluded from tariff	50,000 units	70,000 units	90,000 units
 
Injury to U.S. washing machine manufacturers stems from a sharp increase in imports that began in 2012.  The ITC found that imports of large residential washers increased “steadily” from 2012 to 2016, and that domestic producers’ financial performance “declined precipitously.”
For imports of solar cells and modules, the President approved applying safeguard tariffs for the next four years with the following terms:
 
 	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3	Year 4
Safeguard Tariff on Modules and Cells	30%	25%	20%	15%
Cells Exempted from Tariff	2.5 gigawatts	2.5 gigawatts	2.5 gigawatts	2.5 gigawatts
 
The relief will include a tariff of 30 percent in the first year, 25 percent in the second year, 20 percent in the third year, and 15 percent in the fourth year.  Additionally, the first 2.5 gigawatts of imported solar cells will be exempt from the safeguard tariff in each of those four years.
The U.S. Trade Representative will engage in discussions among interested parties that could lead to positive resolution of the separate antidumping and countervailing duty measures currently imposed on Chinese solar products and U.S. polysilicon.  The goal of those discussions must be fair and sustainable trade throughout the whole solar energy value chain, which would benefit U.S. producers, workers, and consumers.
Following successful trade cases filed by the domestic industry, which levied 40 percent tariffs on Chinese solar imports, China moved production elsewhere and evaded U.S. relief, while maintaining capacity. Today, China dominates the global supply chain and, by its own admission, is looking to increase its capacity to account for 70 percent of total planned global capacity expansions announced in the first half of 2017.
The ITC instituted the cases for Solar and Washers on May 17, 2017, and June 5, 2017 respectively. The ITC then conducted a bipartisan, independent review of the two cases, which included public hearings, before developing various recommendations and reports.
Upon receipt of the ITC’s reports, the Trade Policy Staff Committee, led by the Office of the United States Trade Representative, conducted a thorough interagency process which provided for a public hearing and public comment periods. Ambassador Lighthizer further sought the views of participants in the washer industry and solar producers, importers, and installers before developing the TPC’s recommendation for the President.


United States, Korea Continue Modification and Amendment Negotiations on KORUS FTA
01/25/2018
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced today negotiations on amendments and modifications of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) will be held in Seoul, Korea on January 31 and February 1, 2018.  The United States will engage on priority areas with the goal of moving towards fair and reciprocal trade and resolving additional cross-cutting and sector-specific barriers impacting U.S. exports.
The United States delegation will be led by Michael Beeman, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Japan, Korea and APEC. The Republic of Korea delegation at the meeting will be led by Ms. Myung-hee Yoo, Director General from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE).
Background:
At the direction of President Trump, in July 2017 Ambassador Lighthizer initiated talks to consider matters affecting the operation of the KORUS FTA, including amendments and modifications to resolve several problems regarding market access in Korea for U.S. exports and, most importantly, to address the significant trade imbalance.  The last meeting was held in Washington DC on January 5, 2018. 


Closing Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Sixth Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
01/29/2018
As Delivered
January 29, 2018
Montreal, Canada
Ambassador Lighthizer:
It is a pleasure to be here in Quebec. Montreal is one of the great cities of the world, and I have not been back in many years, and I’ve missed it. I used to come here in the 70s and 80s with my wife and children to go to Mont-Tremblant and learn how to ski. We loved the French culture, we loved the excellent food, the wonderful skiing and as I recall, it was cold all the time. That hasn’t changed at least.
I always thought that Quebec has the greatest motto anywhere: “Je me souviens.” It is a perfect comment on history, culture, and even the future. I think it is a perceptive motto for a trade negotiator. Maybe we’ll put it up at USTR – “Je me souviens.” You can see it when you walk in.
Since we are in Canada, let me talk a bit about our bilateral trade relationship. I think there is some misunderstanding here that the United States is somehow being unfair in these negotiations and that is not the case.
Free trade agreements are essentially grants of preferential treatment to other countries in exchange for an approximately equal grant of preferential treatment in their economy. Thus, it is reasonable from time to time to assess whether the bargain has turned out to be equitable.
Using Canadian statistics, Canada sold the United States $298 billion U.S. dollars in goods in 2016, the last numbers that we have. We sold Canada $210 billion dollars in goods. Now that’s a lot of two-way trade, but it also means that Canada has an over $87 billion U.S. dollar surplus with the United States. To put this in perspective, that figure is equal to approximately 5.7 percent of Canada’s GDP. When energy is removed, and in some people’s opinion that’s a fair thing to do, the number is still $46 billion dollars. The projected figures for 2017 show that the surplus will be even larger when those numbers are in.
Now I ask Canadians because we’re in Canada, is it not fair for us to wonder whether this imbalance could in part be caused by the rules of NAFTA? Would Canada not ask this same question if the situation were reversed? So we need to modernize and we need to rebalance.
Now let me turn to the Sixth Negotiating Round and the status of our talks. We believe that some progress was made. We closed one chapter, as Ildefonso [Guajardo] said it was the chapter on corruption, which is a very important chapter, and we made some progress on a few others. More importantly though, we finally began to discuss some of the core issues. So this round was a step forward, but we are progressing very slowly.
We owe it to our citizens, who are operating in a state of uncertainty, to move much faster. Of course, negotiating as a group of three is more difficult than bilateral talks. Often, issues become more complicated and contentious when there are three parties.
I would like to comment on two proposals by the Canadians, one of which has been in the press quite a bit, and that is a presumed compromise on rules of origin. We find that the automobile rules of origin idea that was presented, when analyzed, may actually lead to less regional content than we have now and fewer jobs in the United States, Canada, and likely Mexico.  So this is the opposite of what we are trying to do.
In another proposal, Canada reserved the right to treat the United States and Mexico even worse than other countries if they enter into future agreements. Those other countries may, in fact, even include China, if there is an agreement between China and [Canada]. This proposal, I think if the United States had made it, would be dubbed a “poison pill.” We did not make it, though. Obviously, this is unacceptable to us, and my guess is it is to the Mexican side also.
Finally, I would like to refer, because I think it fits into this context to an unprecedented trade action that Canada brought against the United States very recently. It constitutes a massive attack on all of our trade laws. If it were successful, it would lead to more Chinese imports into the United States and likely fewer Canadian goods being sold in our market. Now we understand that countries often challenge specific actions taken by another country in the context of trade laws. This is normal and what we expect. But this litigation essentially claims that 24 years ago, the United States effectively gave away its entire trade regime in the Uruguay Round. Of course, we view this case as frivolous, but it does make one wonder if all parties are truly committed to mutually beneficial trade. It also underscores why so many of us are concerned about binding dispute arbitration. What sovereign nation would trust to arbitrators or the flip of a coin their entire defense against unfair trade?
To conclude, some real headway was made here today. The United States views NAFTA as a very important agreement. We are committed to moving forward. I am hopeful progress will accelerate soon. We will work very hard between now and the beginning of the next round, and we hope for major breakthroughs during that period. We will engage with both Mexico and Canada urgently, and we will go where these negotiations take us. Thank you very much.


USTR Lighthizer’s Statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address
01/30/2018
WASHINGTON – U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer released the following statement about President Trump’s State of the Union Address:
“After a year of accomplishments by the Trump Administration, America is stronger, more confident and more optimistic.  The President’s policies are clearly helping to fuel an economic boom that is creating millions of jobs and putting more money in people’s pockets.  His unwavering commitment to promoting America’s interests and insisting on fair and reciprocal trade will deliver even more prosperity to the American people.  As the President has said, America is no longer turning a blind eye to unfair foreign trade practices.  We are and will continue to strongly enforce our trade laws and defend American workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.”


Statement on the Conclusion of US-Korea (Korus) FTA Meetings in Seoul
02/01/2018
Seoul, Korea -- Officials from the United States and the Republic of Korea met in Seoul, Korea on January 31 - February 1 to advance amendment and modification negotiations and other discussions on the U.S.- Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement.  
Discussions focused on specific proposals, including those related to market access and tariffs. The United States emphasized steps to rebalance the Agreement to improve the large trade deficit in industrial goods, including autos and auto parts. Additionally, the United States pressed for the resolution of Agreement implementation concerns that have hindered U.S. goods and services export growth and opportunities in Korea.
“These negotiations are an example of the Trump Administration’s commitment to making trade deals fair and reciprocal,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “We must build on these negotiations with substantive and expeditious progress that will benefit the American people. In every trade relationship, the United States will stand up for U.S. workers and manufacturers, especially those facing serious injury or harm by unfair trade practices.” 
Both sides anticipate setting dates in the near future for further meetings in Washington, DC. 
The U.S. delegation was led by Michael Beeman, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Japan, Korea and APEC. Korea's delegation was led by Deputy Minister Myung-hee Yoo of the Ministry of Trade, Economy and Industry (MOTIE). 
Background:
At the direction of President Trump, in July 2017 Ambassador Lighthizer initiated talks to consider matters affecting the operation of the KORUS FTA, including to address the significant trade imbalance and to resolve market access problems in Korea for U.S. exports. This meeting follows KORUS amendment and modification negotiations held on January 5, 2018, as well as special sessions of the KORUS Joint Committee in 2017.


USTR Robert Lighthizer's Statement on Committee Vote to Approve Nominations of C.J. Mahoney and Dennis Shea
02/15/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding the Senate Finance Committee’s approval of Deputy U.S. Trade Representative nominees C.J. Mahoney and Dennis Shea:
“I thank the committee for moving both of these key nominees forward and especially want to commend Chairman Hatch and Ranking Member Wyden for their leadership.  Deputy U.S. Trade Representatives play crucial roles in advancing President Trump’s agenda of free, fair and reciprocal trade.  We look forward to the Senate confirming both of these extraordinarily well-qualified nominees as quickly as possible.  No Administration has ever had to wait this long for its first Senate-confirmed Deputy USTR.”


United States and Australia Intensify Cooperation on Digital Trade
02/23/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Australian Minister for Trade, Tourism and Investment Steven Ciobo issued the following joint statement on Friday:
“Given the importance of the digital economy to both Australia and the United States, we agree to intensify cooperation to support the growth of digital trade between our countries, ensure an open, free and secure Internet, and advocate the liberalization and facilitation of global digital trade.
“We emphasize the importance of ensuring that our digital policy represents the highest standards for the constantly evolving commercial reality of digital trade.  We particularly seek to ensure that our workers and small and medium-sized enterprises can succeed in the digital economy.
“At the 11th WTO Ministerial Conference (MC11) in December 2017, 70 WTO Members including Australia and the United States – accounting for more than 75 percent of global trade – agreed to work toward future negotiations on e-commerce.  This initiative provides an opportunity to create ambitious, commercially meaningful international trade rules that address key trade barriers and will keep pace with technological change.  We will seek to build on the positive momentum from Buenos Aires to move toward negotiations. 
“We look forward to continuing to work together bilaterally and in international forums to ensure robust global digital trade rules.”


USTR Tests Peru’s Progress in Combatting Illegal Logging
02/26/2018
Washington, DC - The United States Trade Representative today, on behalf of the Interagency Committee on Trade in Timber Products from Peru (Timber Committee), called on the Government of Peru to verify that three timber shipments exported to the United States from Peru in 2017 complied with all applicable Peruvian laws and regulations. 
The timber verification provision is a monitoring tool provided for in the United States – Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA) to ensure robust monitoring and enforcement of Peruvian forestry laws throughout the supply chain. 
“Strong monitoring and enforcement of our trade agreements is a top priority for the Trump Administration,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “We are committed to using all available tools to ensure illegal timber from Peru is not entering the United States at the expense of American timber producers and workers.”
The United States and Peru have an active record of engagement on timber-related issues under the PTPA. However, despite improvements in some areas, serious concerns about illegal logging in Peru remain. 
Today’s action will provide an opportunity to test Peru's progress in addressing this continuing challenge and help ensure that Peruvian timber is legally harvested and violators are held accountable.
Background
The PTPA contains a landmark Environment Chapter and Forest Annex, which includes a requirement for Peru to conduct audits and verifications of particular timber producers and exporters upon request from the United States, and provides for U.S. participation in the verification process.  The PTPA further permits the United States to take compliance measures based on the results of a verification.  
The United States first used this verification provision in 2016 to target a single shipment from the Peruvian company Inversiones Oroza (Oroza).  Peru’s investigation revealed that significant portions of Oroza’s shipment were not compliant with Peru’s laws, regulations, and other measures concerning the harvest of, and trade in, timber products, and that systemic challenges remain to combatting illegal logging in Peru.  
In October 2017, USTR took the unprecedented action of blocking timber imports from Oroza for three years or until the Timber Committee determines that Oroza has complied with all applicable laws, regulations, and other measures governing the harvest of and trade in Peruvian timber products, whichever is shorter. 


Trump Administration Sends Annual Trade Agenda Report to Congress
02/28/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer delivered President Trump’s Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report to Congress today, outlining how the Administration is promoting free, fair and reciprocal trade and strongly enforcing U.S. trade laws.
“President Trump is keeping his promises to the American people on trade, from withdrawing the United States from the flawed Trans-Pacific Partnership, to renegotiating NAFTA, to strongly enforcing U.S. trade laws,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.  “We are already seeing the results of President Trump’s agenda pay off for American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.”
The President’s Trade Policy Agenda rests on five major pillars: 
Trade Policy that Supports National Security Policy
Consistent with the National Security Strategy President Trump announced in December 2017, the President’s Trade Policy Agenda recognizes that economic prosperity at home is necessary for American power and influence abroad.  Free, fair and reciprocal trade relations are a key component of the President’s strategy to promote American prosperity.  Therefore, the Trump Administration will work aggressively to address trade imbalances, promote fair and reciprocal trade relationships, enforce U.S. rights under existing trade agreements, and work with like-minded countries to defend our common prosperity and security against economic aggression.
“Countries that are committed to market-based outcomes and that are willing to provide the United States with reciprocal opportunities in their home markets will find a true friend and ally in the Trump Administration,” the President’s Trade Policy Agenda states.  “Countries that refuse to give us reciprocal treatment or who engage in other unfair trading practices will find that we know how to defend our interests.”
Strengthening the American Economy
The President’s Trade Agenda will build on the economic momentum provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the Administration’s efforts to reduce regulatory burdens.  The Council of Economic Advisers reported in February that the U.S. economy experienced strong and significant acceleration during President Trump’s first year in office.  Growth in real GDP exceeded expectations, the unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in 17 years, and the economy added 2.2 million jobs.  The Trump Administration’s focus on fair and reciprocal trade, combined with the President’s tax cuts and regulatory relief, will lead to more efficient markets and make it easier for American workers and companies to succeed.
Negotiating Trade Deals that Work for All Americans
The Trump Administration will seek an extension of Trade Promotion Authority until 2021 and aggressively use that authority to negotiate or revise trade agreements so they are fair, balanced and support American prosperity.  However, the President’s Trade Policy Agenda warns that the U.S. Senate’s failure to confirm President Trump’s nominees to serve as Deputy U.S. Trade Representatives and Chief Agricultural Negotiator “could significantly undermine” efforts to move forward with trade negotiations.
As part of its trade agenda for 2018, the Trump Administration will continue renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to modernize and rebalance the 24-year-old trade pact, as well as negotiations to amend the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) in order to seek fairer, more reciprocal trade.
The Trump Administration intends to reach other agreements designed to promote fair, balanced trade and support American prosperity.
As part of this effort, the United States and the United Kingdom established a Trade and Investment Working Group in July 2017 to lay the groundwork for commercial continuity and prepare for a potential future trade agreement once the UK leaves the European Union. The Administration will continue preparing for other potential bilateral agreements, including in the Indo-Pacific and African regions.
Enforcing and Defending U.S. Trade Laws
The Trump Administration will continue to use all tools available under U.S. law to combat unfair trade. 
In January 2018, President Trump exercised his authority under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 to provide safeguard relief to U.S. manufacturers injured by imports of washing machines and solar panels.  This was the first time Section 201 had been used to impose tariffs in 16 years. 
The Trump Administration in 2017 launched a self-initiated Section 301 investigation with an in-depth probe into Chinese practices related to forced technology transfer, unfair licensing, and intellectual property (IP) policies and practices.  The Trump Administration has successfully litigated a number of World Trade Organization (WTO) disputes, helping force countries to abandon unfair practices and preserving the U.S. right to enact fair laws.
Strengthening the Multilateral Trading System
The Administration will work with all WTO members who share the U.S. goal of using the organization to create rules that will lead to more efficient markets, more trade and greater wealth for our citizens.  However, the United States is also concerned that the WTO is not operating as the contracting parties envisioned and, as a result, is undermining America’s ability to act in its national interest.  The Trump Administration will work with other like-minded countries to address these long-standing concerns.
Background:
Congress requires the U.S. Trade Representative to submit the President’s Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report by March 1 each year.  The Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report were prepared according to guidelines established under the Trade Act of 1974, as amended. 


USTR Lighthizer’s Statement on Senate Confirmation of Deputy USTRs, Chief Agriculture Negotiator
03/01/2018
Washington, DC  – U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer released the following statement regarding Senate confirmation of C.J. Mahoney to serve as Deputy United States Trade Representative; Dennis Shea to serve as Deputy United States Trade Representative, Chief of Mission, Geneva; and Gregg Doud to serve as Chief Agriculture Negotiator:
“I applaud the Senate for taking action to confirm these immensely qualified trade deputies and negotiators.
“C.J. Mahoney has extensive experience in investment and will play a critical role in helping to negotiate free, fair and reciprocal trade deals, including existing agreements like NAFTA. Dennis Shea will be a steadfast representative of U.S. priorities at the World Trade Organization, building agreement with like-minded members and holding our trading partners accountable. Gregg Doud’s vast experience in the agriculture sector will serve him well as he works to expand export opportunities for America’s farmers and ranchers.
“I look forward to working with all of them to advance free, fair and reciprocal trade that breaks down barriers, expands market access and helps create good-paying American jobs. I also look forward to the Senate confirming Jeffery Gerrish, who will do an excellent job as another Deputy United States Trade Representative.”


Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Closing of the Seventh Round of NAFTA Renegotiations
03/05/2018
As Delivered
March 5, 2018
Mexico City, Mexico
Ambassador Lighthizer:
Good Afternoon.
Let me begin by commending Secretary Guajardo for a terrific job hosting this seventh round of negotiations here in Mexico City. It is a privilege to return to this great city.  Not long after I was last here, Mexico was struck by devastating earthquakes.  Your nation’s rapid recovery from that tragedy shows the great strength of the Mexican people.  You deserve our praise for that and our continued prayers and support.
I would like to thank both of you — Secretary Guajardo and Minister Freeland — for your hard work and for the hard work of your able staffs.  We have to keep in mind that there were several hundred people working very long hours for several days during the course of this process.  We are dealing with a large number of difficult issues, very technical issues, and I appreciate the efforts made by all negotiators.
In spite of this hard work, we have not made the progress that many had hoped in this round.  We have closed out only three additional chapters: Good Regulatory Practices, Administration and Publication, and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures.  We have also completed work on sectoral annexes related to chemicals and proprietary food formulas.  And we are making substantial progress on Telecommunications and Technical Barriers to Trade.  We have also agreed to include a chapter on energy.  These chapters are important and provide further evidence that all three countries want to upgrade and modernize NAFTA.  But to complete NAFTA 2.0, we will need agreement on roughly 30 chapters.  So far, after seven months we have completed just six.  Now granted, these things tend to converge more towards the end of a negotiation.
As I have said since August, we have two major goals in these negotiations.  First, we want to update NAFTA to address modern trade issues.  All three countries agree that NAFTA is outdated, and I believe we should be able to reach agreement on new issues like digital trade, labor, and environment, intellectual property, and much more.  We urge all parties to move more quickly on these issues.
Second, we believe that NAFTA should be rebalanced.  This has been a longstanding U.S. concern about the treatment of our workers and businesses.  From our point of view, among other things, changing the agreement so that it no longer encourages outsourcing, developing rules of origin that will fairly treat our manufacturing sector and workers, and reshaping the rules of government procurement are very important.  We also need to make more progress on these points to conclude a new NAFTA.  We continue to stress the need to act quickly.
Now our time is running very short.  On July 1, as everyone here knows, Mexico will choose a new president.  That campaign as I understand it begins in earnest just next month.  But Mexico is not the only NAFTA country in the midst of elections.  Both Ontario and Quebec have elections scheduled later this year.  Finally, the United States has mid-term elections coming up in November.  All of this complicates our work.  I fear that the longer we proceed, the more political headwinds we will feel.
I also note that in all three countries, reaching an agreement at the negotiating table is only part of the process.  In the United States, after an agreement in principle is concluded, our laws require public disclosure of text, further consultations, and numerous reports before it can be considered by Congress.  Thus, in the U.S., we must resolve our outstanding issues soon to maintain the possibility of having this measure be considered by the current Congress.
As President Trump has said, we hope for a successful completion of these talks, and we would prefer a three-way, tripartite agreement.  If that proves impossible, we are prepared to move on a bilateral basis, if agreement can be made.
We have tried to be clear and very specific about what we hope to see in a new NAFTA.  We are prepared to work continuously to achieve a breakthrough.  I understand that these talks are not easy for anyone.  Each of us has our own political concerns.  But we are at the point where we have very important decisions to be made.  If the political will is there, I am certain that we have a path to a rapid and successful conclusion.
Thank you.


Ambassador Lighthizer’s Statement on Senate Confirmation of Jeffrey Gerrish
03/06/2018
WASHINGTON – U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer released the following statement following Senate confirmation of Jeffrey Gerrish to serve as Deputy United States Trade Representative:
“I applaud the Senate’s action to confirm Jeff Gerrish to be the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative. Jeff is a seasoned expert whose experience in international trade will be crucial in negotiating fair and reciprocal trade deals that level the playing field and benefit American workers. I look forward to having him join the President’s team.”


USTR Robert Lighthizer’s Statement on President Trump’s Decisions on Imported Steel and Aluminum
03/08/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement regarding President Trump signing Presidential Proclamations related to tariffs on imported steel and aluminum:
“Under the leadership of President Trump, America has a robust trade agenda that supports our national security. The President is once again demonstrating he will protect our country, fight for American workers and strictly enforce our trade laws.  I will work closely with other Cabinet officials to advise the President on how to implement the program on steel and aluminum that he announced today.”


Joint Readout from Meeting of the United States, European Union and Japan in Brussels
03/10/2018
Meeting between EU Commissioner for Trade Cecilia Malmström, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan Hiroshige Seko and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer
Mrs Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan and Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative met in Brussels on 10 March, 2018.
The Ministers confirmed their shared objective to address non market-oriented policies and practices that lead to severe overcapacity, create unfair competitive conditions for our workers and businesses, hinder the development and use of innovative technologies, and undermine the proper functioning of international trade, including where existing rules are not effective.
To this end, the Ministers agreed to take the following initial joint actions:
To define the basis for the development of stronger rules on industrial subsidies, and collaborate on maintaining existing disciplines, to tackle the issues of market distortion or overcapacity;
To enforce existing rules by working jointly on current and new disputes in the WTO;
To work in the WTO regular bodies towards improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the WTO monitoring function, including strengthening of notification requirements;
Engage with the appropriate authorities within government with a view to cooperating on investment screening, both by an exchange of information on our respective frameworks and by the consideration of possible means of coordination going forward;
Engage with the appropriate authorities within government with a view to further the work of the International Working Group on Export Credits towards a new set of guidelines;
To intensify information-sharing on trade-distortive practices;
To coordinate closely in international fora, such as the G7, G20 and the OECD and on sectoral initiatives such as the Global Steel Forum and Governments/Authorities Meeting on Semiconductors.
To reinforce the WTO rule-making function, the Ministers reaffirmed their commitment to the MC11 joint statement on e-commerce.
The Ministers agreed to meet again in the margins of the OECD ministerial meeting in Paris to discuss progress on the above and explore further areas of joint action.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Swears In Deputy USTR Dennis Shea and Chief Agricultural Negotiator Gregg Doud
03/13/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today swore into office two new principals confirmed to USTR leadership. Dennis Shea was sworn in as Deputy United States Trade Representative and Chief of Mission, Geneva, where he will represent the United States as Ambassador to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Gregg Doud was sworn in as Chief Agricultural Negotiator, with the rank of Ambassador. Both Ambassadors were confirmed by the U.S. Senate on March 1, 2018.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Swears In Deputy USTR C.J. Mahoney
03/13/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today swore in to office C.J. Mahoney as Deputy United States Trade Representative for Investment, Services, Labor, Environment, Africa, China and the Western Hemisphere. Ambassador Mahoney was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on March 1, 2018 and joins Ambassadors Dennis Shea and Gregg Doud as newly sworn-in leadership at USTR.


United States Launches WTO Challenge to Indian Export Subsidy Programs
03/14/2018
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer today announced that the United States has requested dispute settlement consultations with the Government of India at the World Trade Organization (WTO) challenging Indian export subsidy programs.  These programs are: the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme; Export Oriented Units Scheme and sector specific schemes, including Electronics Hardware Technology Parks Scheme; Special Economic Zones; Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme; and a duty free imports for exporters program.  These apparent export subsidies provide financial benefits to Indian exporters that allow them to sell their goods more cheaply to the detriment of American workers and manufacturers.    
“These export subsidy programs harm American workers by creating an uneven playing field on which they must compete,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “USTR will continue to hold our trading partners accountable by vigorously enforcing U.S. rights under our trade agreements and by promoting fair and reciprocal trade through all available tools, including the WTO.”
Through these programs, India provides exemptions from certain duties, taxes, and fees; reduces import duty liability; and benefits numerous Indian exporters, including producers of steel products, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, information technology products, textiles, and apparel.  According to Indian Government documents, thousands of Indian companies are receiving benefits totaling over $7 billion annually from these programs
Background
Export subsidies provide an unfair competitive advantage to recipients, and WTO rules expressly prohibit them.  A limited exception to this rule is for specified developing countries that may continue to provide export subsidies temporarily until they reach a defined economic benchmark.  India was initially within this group, but it surpassed the benchmark in 2015. India’s exemption has expired, but India has not withdrawn its export subsidies.  
In fact, India has increased the size and scope of these programs.  For example, India introduced the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme in 2015, which has rapidly expanded to include more than 8,000 eligible products, nearly double the number of products covered at its inception. 
Exports from Special Economic Zones increased over 6,000 percent from 2000 to 2017, and in 2016, exports from Special Economic Zones accounted for over $82 billion in exports, or 30 percent of India’s export volume.  Exports from the Export Oriented Units Scheme and sector specific schemes, including Electronics Hardware Technology Parks Scheme, increased by over 160 percent from 2000 to 2016.       
Consultations are the first step in the WTO dispute settlement process.  If the United States and India are not able to reach a mutually agreed solution through consultations, the United States may request the establishment of a WTO dispute settlement panel to review the matter.


Joint Statement of UK International Trade Secretary Dr. Fox MP and United States Trade Representative Lighthizer
03/15/2018
Washington D.C. -- Secretary of State for International Trade and President of the Board of Trade, The Rt Hon Dr. Liam Fox MP, and United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, met Wednesday to discuss shared efforts to continue strengthening the trade and investment relationship between the United Kingdom and the United States.
They discussed the importance of on-going work to ensure continuity and certainty for U.S. and UK businesses as the United Kingdom leaves the European Union; the continuing progress of the Trade and Investment Working Group, which will meet next week in Washington, in deepening our present, and defining our future, trade relationship; and efforts to promote free and fair trade, including through the elimination trade-distorting policies and practices around the world and tackling severe overcapacity. 
Dr. Fox and Ambassador Lighthizer also made several announcements:
Both Governments published “toolkits” to help U.S. and UK Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) protect and enforce their intellectual property in each market.  The UK and U.S. teams have developed these joint educational tools and resources for small and medium-sized enterprises to support the export of creative and innovative products and services between the two countries:
U.S. Toolkit for UK SMEs: www.uspto.gov/IPToolkit
UK Toolkit for U.S. SMEs: www.gov.uk/government/publications/protecting-intellectual-property-in-the-united-kingdom
On March 20, the inaugural meeting of the U.S.-UK Dialogue on SMEs will take place in connection with the Working Group meetings. This will bring small and medium businesses and stakeholders on both sides of the Atlantic together with government officials to identify ways to deepen trade and investment ties and strengthen cooperation on issues of mutual interest to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Next week at the SME Dialogue, both Governments will also publish a joint brochure for SMEs on resources for Doing Business in the United States and UK.  This resource provides targeted information to SMEs and demonstrates our early commitment to help SMEs benefit from deepening U.S.-UK trade. 
Lastly, Dr. Fox and Ambassador Lighthizer recognized the successful conclusion of a Mutual Recognition Agreement between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA), and the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA), representing U.S. state-level regulators.  This agreement demonstrates a practical way in which the United States and the UK, with similar high-quality standards, can cooperate closely to facilitate trade with each other.
Secretary of State for International Trade Dr Liam Fox MP said:
“Ambassador Lighthizer and I enjoyed a constructive meeting that touched on our shared ambition for a far deeper trade relationship both now and once the UK has left the EU.
“We are committed to maintaining momentum during next week’s UK-US Trade and Investment Group meeting in Washington, D.C. The Working Group discussions have agreed new measures to benefit small business in both our countries with the launch of SME Dialogue and the Toolkit on IP Protection for SMEs. 
“We also spoke about the United States’ planned imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum.”
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said:
“Secretary of State Fox and I had very productive discussions on how to deepen our already extensive trade relationship – both now and when the UK leaves the EU.  We are looking forward to hosting the UK team next week here in Washington for the third meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group. This working group is an important element of our shared agenda to achieve free and fair trade, address the challenges faced by the global trading system, and to create good-paying jobs on both sides of the Atlantic.
"The launch of both the SME Dialogue and the Toolkit on IP Protection for SMEs are two practical outcomes of our discussions so far.  We look forward to continuing to expand opportunities for our businesses and workers, including for small and medium sized enterprises.”


United States and Armenia Work to Strengthen Ties, Expand Trade and Investment Relationship
03/19/2018
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative today concluded the second meeting of the U.S-Armenia Trade and Investment Council. Assistant United States Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East L. Daniel Mullaney and Armenian Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Investments Hovhannes Azizyan co-chaired the meeting.
During the Council meeting, in Washington, DC, officials from the United States and Armenia discussed a range of issues, including the adoption of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, procedures for stakeholder consultation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, customs clearance, intellectual property rights, and processes for monitoring and enforcing labor laws.
The United States is committed to building upon this partnership and greatly values its economic relationship with Armenia. Following this meeting, the United States will continue engagement in order to increase opportunities for bilateral trade and investment, as Armenia takes steps to reform its economy and strengthen its business and investment environment.
Background:
Total two-way trade (exports plus imports) between the United States and Armenia totaled $122 million in 2017.  U.S. goods exports to Armenia were $55 million, up 26% ($11 million) from 2016.  U.S. goods imports from Armenia totaled $67 million in 2017, up 58% ($25 million) from 2016.  Leading U.S. exports to Armenia include poultry, machinery, electrical machinery, diamonds, and manmade staple fibers.  Armenia predominantly exports aluminum, diamonds, woven apparel, beverages, and jam to the United States.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Swears in Deputy USTR Jeffrey Gerrish
03/20/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today swore into office Jeffrey Gerrish as Deputy United States Trade Representative for Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Industrial Competitiveness. Ambassador Gerrish was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on March 5, 2018. Ambassador Gerrish joins newly-sworn in Ambassadors Dennis Shea, Gregg Doud and C.J. Mahoney to round out the Senate-confirmed leadership at USTR.


Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer to the House Ways and Means Committee
03/21/2018
THE PRESIDENT’S TRADE POLICY AGENDA AND FISCAL YEAR 2019 BUDGET
Washington, DC
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:
Thank you Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Neal and members of the committee. I am pleased to be here today. We at USTR greatly appreciate the expertise of the Members of this committee. We’re grateful for all the time you give us in working up truly bipartisan trade policy – the effort you’ve helped us with on NAFTA and the many issues we face.
Before I continue with my statement, let me just say since I generally, when I come here, complain about the fact that I have no deputies, I in fact have deputies now. So I thought it would be appropriate since they’re all going to be senior members of your staffs that I probably ought to at least have you know who’s working for you now besides me.
Jeffrey Gerrish, is our Deputy for Europe, the Middle East and Asia. C.J. Mahoney is our Deputy for Africa, China, the Western Hemisphere, and he’s also going to do Investment and Services. And he will be our transparency officer. You’ll recall that we selected an appointed official as our transparency officer. Those are the two people I wanted you to focus on, if you would, since they are brand new.
First, I would like to draw the Committee’s attention to the fact that this year, the U.S. trade deficit in goods and services rose to $565 billion, and in goods alone it was $811 billion.  Of course, there are lots of causes for these numbers but the President believes – and I also agree – that long-standing trade deficits to some extent reflect market distortions, and that they are having a negative effect on U.S. workers and businesses. We also of course have a massive goods trade deficit with China which we should speak about at some point – $375 billion, so the numbers essentially got worse last year.
I know that the Members here have a variety of views on these figures.  But the President believes they raise significant concerns.  They indicate that sometimes the global rules of trade make it harder for U.S. companies to compete and specifically to export.  The trade deficit also indicates that in the United States the costs of globalization are falling most heavily on blue-collar workers, and this is something that is bad for the economy and bad for the society. Finally, they tend to undermine the support for the global trading system. Trade deficits are a problem.
Quickly, I would outline the President’s Trade Agenda. First, we at USTR will support the President’s National Security Strategy. If you haven’t looked at that I would recommend it to you.  That means that our trade policy will help to build a stronger America, preserve our national sovereignty, respond to hostile economic competitors, recognize the importance of technology, and seek opportunities to work with other countries that share our goals.
Second, for U.S. companies and workers to be competitive in overseas markets, we need a strong and robust economy at home – and I commend the committee for the work they did on the tax cut bill.
Third, we are negotiating trade deals that will work for all Americans.  As the members of this Committee well know, the President directed us to seek significant changes to NAFTA.  We have already held seven rounds of talks with our partners in Canada and Mexico, and I believe that we have made a great deal of progress.  We have also begun discussions, as most of you know, with South Korea on updating KORUS.
Now that we have a full team of deputies, we intend to aggressively pursue other potential free trade agreements.  We have a trade working group with the United Kingdom. We have told Japan that we are interested in having a free trade agreement with them at the appropriate time.  We are prepared to explore the possible countries in Africa and Southeast Asia that might be appropriate for us to enter into a free trade agreement. 
And as you said Mr. Chairman, the President has asked for the extension of Trade Promotion Authority to accomplish this.
Fourth, we are enforcing our trade laws.  The President indicated he would use all available trade laws to defend U.S. workers, farmers, and ranchers against unfair trade, and he is in fact doing that.
Finally, we seek to reform the multilateral trading system.  For too long, the WTO has failed to promote trade liberalization.  Too many WTO members view it as a litigation forum, and not a negotiation forum. 
In short, USTR – under the direction of President Trump – is seeking to build a better, fairer system of global trade that will lead to higher living standards for all Americans.  Thank you, and I look forward to taking your questions.


President Trump Announces Strong Actions to Address China’s Unfair Trade
03/22/2018
Washington, DC – Today President Trump announced his decisions on the actions the Administration will take in response to China’s unfair trade practices covered in the USTR Section 301 investigation of China’s Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer initiated the investigation in August 2017 at the direction of President Trump.
The President has instructed that the appropriate response to China’s harmful acts, policies and practices should include three separate actions. 
1.Tariffs – The President has instructed the Trade Representative to publish a proposed list of products and any tariff increases within 15 days of today’s announcement.  After a period of notice and comment, the Trade Representative will publish a final list of products and tariff increases. 
2.WTO dispute – The President has instructed the Trade Representative to pursue dispute settlement in the World Trade Organization (WTO) to address China’s discriminatory technology licensing practices. 
3.Investment restrictions – The President has directed the Secretary of the Treasury to address concerns about investment in the United States directed or facilitated by China in industries or technologies deemed important to the United States. 
“President Trump has made it clear we must insist on fair and reciprocal trade with China and strictly enforce our laws against unfair trade.  This requires taking effective action to confront China over its state-led efforts to force, strong-arm, and even steal U.S. technology and intellectual property,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Years of talking about these problems with China has not worked.  The United States is committed to using all available tools to respond to China’s unfair, market-distorting behavior.  China’s unprecedented and unfair trade practices are a serious challenge not just to the United States, but to our allies and partners around the world.”
The Chinese government’s technology transfer and intellectual property policies are part of China’s stated intention of seizing economic leadership in advanced technology as set forth in its industrial plans, such as “Made in China 2025.”
Section 301 is a key enforcement tool that allows the United States to address a wide variety of unfair acts, policies, and practices of U.S. trading partners.  The investigation of China’s Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation addresses four categories of acts, policies, and practices of the Government of China that unfairly result in the transfer of technologies and intellectual property from U.S. companies to China.  These policies harm U.S. businesses and workers and threaten the long-term competitiveness of the United States. 
USTR staff, with the assistance of dozens of experts from across the Administration, prepared a comprehensive report containing detailed findings.  The report is available on the USTR website. 
The report supports the following conclusions:
1.China uses foreign ownership restrictions, including joint venture requirements, equity limitations, and other investment restrictions, to require or pressure technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese entities.  China also uses administrative review and licensing procedures to require or pressure technology transfer, which, inter alia, undermines the value of U.S. investments and technology and weakens the global competitiveness of U.S. firms.
2.China imposes substantial restrictions on, and intervenes in, U.S. firms’ investments and activities, including through restrictions on technology licensing terms.  These restrictions deprive U.S. technology owners of the ability to bargain and set market-based terms for technology transfer.  As a result, U.S. companies seeking to license technologies must do so on terms that unfairly favor Chinese recipients.
3.China directs and facilitates the systematic investment in, and acquisition of, U.S. companies and assets by Chinese companies to obtain cutting-edge technologies and intellectual property and to generate large-scale technology transfer in industries deemed important by Chinese government industrial plans. 
4.China conducts and supports unauthorized intrusions into, and theft from, the computer networks of U.S. companies. These actions provide the Chinese government with unauthorized access to intellectual property, trade secrets, or confidential business information, including technical data, negotiating positions, and sensitive and proprietary internal business communications, and they also support China’s strategic development goals, including its science and technology advancement, military modernization, and economic development.
The European Union Chamber of Commerce in China likewise concluded in a report entitled “China Manufacturing 2025: Putting Industrial Policy Ahead of Market Forces” that there has been an “unprecedented wave of outbound investments” in recent years from China into firms in industries of relevance to Made in China 2025, and many of these investments have been in areas where foreign business is unable to make equivalent investments in China.
The USTR report also notes, “As the global economy has increased its dependence on information systems in recent years, cyber theft became one of China’s preferred methods of collecting commercial information because of its logistical advantages and plausible deniability.” The report goes on to conclude that “based on available information on China’s cyber intrusions, experts have concluded that China’s cyber intrusions and cyber theft align with its industrial policy goals.”


Following President Trump’s Section 301 Decisions, USTR Launches New WTO Challenge Against China
03/23/2018
Washington, DC – The United States is taking action at the World Trade Organization (WTO) to address China’s unfair technology practices that run counter to WTO rules.
Today, the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) – at the direction of President Trump – filed a request for consultations with China at the WTO to address China’s discriminatory technology licensing requirements.  The request comes a day after President Trump announced he was directing the USTR to pursue dispute settlement in the WTO to confront China over its policies that result in unfair treatment for U.S. companies and innovators trying to do business in China.
China appears to be breaking WTO rules by denying foreign patent holders, including U.S. companies, basic patent rights to stop a Chinese entity from using the technology after a licensing contract ends.  China also appears to be breaking WTO rules by imposing mandatory adverse contract terms that discriminate against and are less favorable for imported foreign technology. 
These Chinese policies hurt innovators in the United States and worldwide by interfering with the ability of foreign technology holders to set market-based terms in licensing and other technology-related contracts. 
Background
The U.S. consultation request identifies apparent breaches by China of WTO rules, harming the intellectual property rights of U.S. companies and innovators.  The U.S. claims under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement) relate to China’s discrimination against foreign intellectual property rights holders (Article 3) and failure to ensure patent rights for foreign patent holders (Article 28).  This is the Administration’s third WTO consultation request. 
Consultations are the first step in the WTO dispute settlement process.  If the United States and China are not able to reach a mutually agreed solution through consultations, the United States may request the establishment of a WTO dispute settlement panel to review the matter.
Following a Memorandum from President Trump, on August 18, 2017, the U.S. Trade Representative initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 into the government of China’s acts, policies, and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation.  Following a thorough analysis of available evidence, USTR, with the assistance of the interagency Section 301 committee, prepared findings showing that, among other acts, policies, and practices, China uses discriminatory licensing requirements to transfer technologies from U.S. companies to Chinese companies.
China’s measures of concern include the Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on the Administration of the Import and Export of Technologies and the Regulations for the Implementation of the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Chinese-Foreign Equity Joint Ventures.  China’s measures provide less favorable treatment of foreign entities than the comparable treatment of domestic Chinese entities under the Contract Law of the People’s Republic of China.
The U.S. request for consultations is attached.


Readout of the 3rd Meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group and the 1st Meeting of the U.S.-UK SME Dialogue
03/23/2018
Washington D.C. – The United States and the United Kingdom held the third meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group on March 21-22 and the inaugural meeting of the new U.S.-UK Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) Dialogue on March 20.  
The Working Group, established in July 2017, works to deepen current trade and investment ties between the two nations and is laying the groundwork for a potential, future free trade agreement once the United Kingdom leaves the European Union.  The delegations were led by officials from the UK Department of International Trade and the Office of the United States Trade Representative and included representatives from a wide range of U.S. and UK government agencies.  The Working Group discussions covered a range of topics, including industrial and agricultural goods; services, investment, intellectual property rights and enforcement; regulatory issues related to trade; and small and medium-sized enterprises. 
The inaugural meeting of the SME Dialogue brought together more than 100 U.S. and UK SMEs with government officials from both countries to discuss ways to deepen trade and investment and enhance SME cooperation, identify resources currently available from both governments to assist SMEs, and hear from SMEs on their specific challenges and opportunities when trading bilaterally.  At the Dialogue, the U.S. and UK governments jointly released the guide to Doing Business in the U.S. and UK: Resources for Small Business as a key tool for SMEs seeking to benefit from U.S.-UK trade. Building on these positive outcomes from the first U.S.-UK SME Dialogue, both governments met the following day as part of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group to further discuss opportunities to work together.  During these meetings:
the United States extended an invitation to the UK government to join the Tenth Americas Competitiveness Exchange (ACE) on Innovation and Entrepreneurship in California, to exchange best practices on innovative approaches to economic development;
the United States and UK agreed to explore trade promotion and trade show collaboration, notably between the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Small Business Administration and the UK Department for International Trade;
the 2nd U.S.-UK SME Dialogue will be hosted in the United Kingdom.
As discussed in the March 15 Joint Statement of U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and UK Secretary of State for International Trade Liam Fox (Joint Statement), the ongoing SME Dialogue was one of several tangible outcomes of the Working Group. 
Statement on the First Joint Committee Meeting Under the U.S.-EU Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures on Insurance and Reinsurance
03/27/2018
WASHINGTON - The European Union and United States held on 6 March 2018 the first meeting of the Joint Committee established under the EU - U.S. agreement on prudential insurance and reinsurance measures (“the Agreement” hereafter).  The United States and the European Union signed the Agreement on 22 September 2017 and the Agreement entered into provisional application on 7 November 2017.
The Agreement – which is a ‘covered agreement’ in the meaning of the Dodd-Frank Act for the United States and an Agreement under Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the EU – addresses three areas of prudential insurance oversight:  (1) reinsurance; (2) group supervision; and (3) the exchange of insurance information between supervisors.
The Joint Committee meeting was attended by representatives from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Trade, as well as by U.S. state insurance commissioners and representatives from the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the Federal Reserve Board.
At the first Joint Committee meeting under the Agreement, participants discussed procedural aspects of the Joint Committee and followed up on the progress achieved on both sides regarding the implementation of the Agreement on reinsurance, group supervision and exchange of information.
Both sides confirmed their commitment under the Joint Committee to full and timely implementation of the provisions of the Agreement, including the removal of collateral and local presence requirements for reinsurers and the provisions on group supervision measures. In addition, the EU and the United States affirmed their commitment to continuous review of progress on the Agreement and close coordination between each side.  Consistent with the Agreement, both sides shall encourage relevant authorities to refrain from taking any measures which are inconsistent with any of the conditions or obligations of the Agreement. 


Section 301 Report into China's Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation
03/27/2018
https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/Section%20301%20FINAL.PDF

Joint Statement by the United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer and Republic of Korea Minister for Trade Hyun Chong Kim
03/28/2018
Today, Ambassador Lighthizer and Minister Kim are pleased to announce that the United States and the Republic of Korea have reached an agreement in principle on the general terms of amendments and modifications to the United States-Republic of Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA).  The nations have also agreed on terms for a country exemption for the Republic of Korea from tariffs imposed on steel imports under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 pursuant to Presidential Proclamation 9705, as amended.
At the instruction of the Ministers, negotiators are finalizing the terms of the KORUS FTA negotiations, which are subject to domestic procedures in both nations before provisions can be brought into force.  The revised agreement addresses issues related to investment, tariffs, trade in automobiles, and trade remedies.  Additional progress was made in the areas of pharmaceuticals, customs and textiles to smoothly implement the KORUS FTA. 
The arrangement with respect to steel imports is expected to take effect on May 1, 2018.
This represents important progress in improving U.S.-Korea trade and economic relations, based on their strong and enduring security relationship.


President Trump Determines Trade Preference Program Eligibility For Rwanda, Tanzania, And Uganda
03/29/2018
Washington, DC – The President determined today the eligibility of Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda for trade preference benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).
In response to a petition filed by the U.S. used clothing industry in March 2017, the Administration initiated an out-of-cycle review of Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda’s AGOA eligibility regarding their decisions to phase in a ban on imports of used clothing and footwear.  The review found that this import ban harms the U.S. used clothing industry and is inconsistent with AGOA beneficiary criteria for countries to eliminate barriers to U.S. trade and investment.
Based on the results of the review, the President determined that Rwanda is not making sufficient progress toward the elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment, and therefore is out of compliance with eligibility requirements of AGOA.  Consequently, the President notified Congress and the Government of Rwanda of his intent to suspend duty-free treatment for all AGOA-eligible apparel products from Rwanda in 60 days. 
The President believes suspension of these benefits, instead of termination of Rwanda’s status as an AGOA beneficiary, would allow for continued engagement with the aim of restoring market access and thereby bringing Rwanda into compliance with the AGOA eligibility requirements.
The President is not suspending benefits for Tanzania and Uganda because each has taken steps toward eliminating prohibitive tariff rates on imports of used clothing and footwear and committed not to phase in a ban of these products.  The United States will continue to monitor whether Tanzania and Uganda implement these commitments and demonstrate compliance with all of AGOA’s eligibility requirements.
“The President’s determinations underscore his commitment to enforcing our trade laws and ensuring fairness in our trade relationships,” said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney. “I commend Tanzania and Uganda for taking corrective steps to address the United States’ concerns. We have and will continue to work with Rwanda to resolve this situation.”
Background
On March 21, 2017, the Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association (SMART), asserted that the East African Community (EAC)’s 2016 decision to phase in a ban on imports of used clothing and footwear imposes significant economic hardship on the U.S. used clothing industry, and is inconsistent with AGOA beneficiary criteria for countries to establish a market-based economy and eliminate barriers to U.S. trade and investment.  Its petition requested an out-of-cycle review to determine whether Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, members of the EAC, are meeting AGOA eligibility criteria.  In its petition, SMART estimates that 40,000 U.S. jobs related to the collection, processing, and distribution of used clothing and footwear will be negatively affected once the ban is implemented.  SMART also asserts that the ban will negatively affect tens of thousands of jobs in the secondhand clothing sector in EAC countries.
The U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) accepted the petition filed by SMART and initiated an out-of-cycle review of Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda’s AGOA eligibility on June 20, 2017.  A public hearing was held on July 13, 2017 in Washington at which officials from the governments of Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and from the EAC Secretariat testified.  The USTR determined that an out-of-cycle review of Kenya’s AGOA eligibility was not warranted due to the government’s commitment to reverse the tariff back to pre-2016 levels, effective July 1, 2017, and a commitment not to ban imports of used clothing through other policy measures.  Tanzania and Uganda also made similar commitments during the course of the out-of-cycle review.
In order to qualify for AGOA trade benefits, partner countries must meet certain statutory eligibility requirements, including making continual progress toward establishing market-based economies, the rule of law, political pluralism, and elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment, among others.


USTR Releases 2018 National Trade Estimate Report
03/30/2018
Report Builds on Administration’s Efforts to Remove Trade Barriers
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today released the 2018 National Trade Estimate (NTE), an annual report documenting foreign trade and investment barriers facing American exports around the world.
“The President is fully committed to addressing unfair foreign trade barriers through tough enforcement and the negotiation of new agreements that increase U.S. exports and support high-paying jobs for all Americans,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.  “We will use every available tool to ensure Americans are treated fairly.”
The findings of the 2018 NTE build upon the major pillars of President Trump’s 2018 Trade Policy Agenda to secure market access for American farmers, ranchers and exporters, and hold our trading partners accountable by enforcing U.S. trade laws.
To view the 2018 National Trade Estimate, click here.
Background:
The NTE is the U.S. government’s major annual report on the barriers to trade, investment, and services that American exporters and other businesses and their workers encounter around the world. The report is required to be published each year by March 31 and is submitted to the President and Congress.  The USTR works closely with other government agencies and U.S. embassies to prepare the NTE.


Under Section 301 Action, USTR Releases Proposed Tariff List on Chinese Products
04/03/2018
WASHINGTON, DC – As part of the U.S. response to China’s unfair trade practices related to the forced transfer of U.S. technology and intellectual property, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today published a proposed list of products imported from China that could be subject to additional tariffs.
Following USTR’s Section 301 investigation, President Trump announced in March that the United States will impose tariffs on approximately $50 billion worth of Chinese imports and take other actions in response to China’s policies that coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to domestic Chinese enterprises.  These policies bolster China’s stated intention of seizing economic leadership in advanced technology as set forth in its industrial plans, such as “Made in China 2025.”
The proposed list of products is based on extensive interagency economic analysis and would target products that benefit from China’s industrial plans while minimizing the impact on the U.S. economy.  Sectors subject to the proposed tariffs include industries such as aerospace, information and communication technology, robotics, and machinery.
The proposed list covers approximately 1,300 separate tariff lines and will undergo further review in a public notice and comment process, including a hearing.  After completion of this process, USTR will issue a final determination on the products subject to the additional duties.
The total value of imports subject to the tariff increase is commensurate with an economic analysis of the harm caused by China’s unreasonable technology transfer policies to the U.S. economy, as covered by USTR’s Section 301 investigation.
Today’s announcement comes just days after the USTR filed a request for consultations with China at the World Trade Organization (WTO) to address China’s discriminatory technology licensing requirements.  Such consultations are the first step in the WTO dispute settlement process.  If the United States and China are unable to reach a solution through consultations, the United States may request the establishment of a WTO dispute settlement panel to review the matter.


United States: China’s Response to U.S. Steel and Aluminum Tariffs Is Baseless
04/04/2018
Washington, DC – Today the United States submitted a communication to China and the World Trade Organization (WTO) regarding China’s recent request for consultations on the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs.
China’s request for consultations under the WTO Safeguards Agreement is completely baseless because the United States’ Section 232 tariffs address a national security threat to critical industries and are not part of a safeguard action.
Consequently, there is no basis under WTO rules for China’s decision this week to raise tariffs against over $3 billion in U.S. exports.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the President’s Additional Section 301 Action
04/05/2018
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement in support of the President’s direction that the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) consider additional measures under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 regarding China’s unfair acts related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation:
“President Trump is proposing an appropriate response to China’s recent threat of new tariffs.  After a detailed investigation, USTR found overwhelming evidence that China’s unreasonable actions are harming the U.S. economy.  In the light of such evidence, the appropriate response from China should be to change its behavior, as China’s government has pledged to do many times.  Economies around the world – including China’s own – would benefit if China would implement policies that truly reward hard work and innovation, rather than continuing its policies that distort the vital high-tech sector.
“Unfortunately, China has chosen to respond thus far with threats to impose unjustified tariffs on billions of dollars in U.S. exports, including our agricultural products.  Such measures would undoubtedly cause further harm to American workers, farmers, and businesses.  Under these circumstances, the President is right to ask for additional appropriate action to obtain the elimination of the unfair acts, policies, and practices identified in USTR’s report.”
Any additional tariffs proposed will be subject to a similar public comment process as the proposed tariffs announced on April 3, 2018. No tariffs will go into effect until the respective process is complete.


USTR Announces U.S.-Bahrain Memorandum of Understanding on Trade in Food and Agriculture Products
04/09/2018
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced that the United States and Bahrain have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Trade in Food and Agriculture Products. Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish and Bahrain Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism Zayed Al-Zayani signed the MOU and discussed further strengthening U.S.-Bahrain trade relations. 
The MOU supports certainty and enhanced cooperation on requirements for U.S. exports of food and agriculture products to Bahrain, and enables more opportunities for the United States and Bahrain to continue joint efforts to facilitate bilateral trade in food and agriculture products.  Additionally, the MOU provides that Bahrain will continue to accept existing U.S. export certifications for food and agricultural products. It also provides for consultations to address potential new requirements and to increase certainty in the supply of food and agricultural products from the United Stated to Bahrain.
“I am very pleased to support America’s farmers and ranchers by concluding and signing this memorandum of understanding that clarifies requirements for U.S food and agricultural exports to Bahrain,” said Deputy USTR Jeffry Gerrish. “USTR appreciate Bahrain’s strategic partnership with the United States in the Gulf region and looks forward to continuing joint efforts to facilitate trade between our countries.”
To read the U.S.-Bahrain Memorandum of Understanding, click here.
Background
U.S. agricultural and fishery exports to Bahrain in 2017 totaled $76 million dollars. In total goods, the United States exported $907 million and imported $996 million in 2017.  In total services, the United States exported $271 million and imported $1.3 billion in 2016 (latest data available). The United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement entered into force on January 11, 2006.


United States and Thailand Discuss Strengthening Engagement on Trade, Resolving Priority Issues
04/10/2018
Washington, D.C. – The United States and Thailand met today under the U.S.-Thailand Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) to discuss ways to deepen trade ties and address outstanding bilateral trade issues between them.  The two sides reaffirmed the importance of their longstanding relationship and of working together to expand trade.
The United States updated Thailand on the Trump Administration’s trade agenda and the priority it places on promoting fair and reciprocal trade, as well as strengthening ties with countries in the Indo-Pacific region.  ‎
The United States emphasized the importance of Thailand dismantling barriers to U.S. exports and reducing the U.S. trade deficit with Thailand.  In particular, the two sides discussed barriers to U.S. exports related to agriculture, customs, intellectual property, labor, and other issues, and agreed to continue their dialogue to resolve these issues.  The United States and Thailand also discussed broader regional and multilateral engagement, including Thailand’s efforts to implement the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement, and ways to work together to advance work under the ASEAN-U.S. Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement.
Acting Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Southeast Asia and the Pacific Karl Ehlers led the U.S. interagency team for the meeting, which included officials from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, and the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, and State. Ministry of Commerce Permanent Secretary Nuntawan Sakuntanaga led the Thailand delegation, which included senior officials from the Ministries of Commerce, Public Health, Agriculture, Labor and Foreign Affairs.
Background
The United States and Thailand have strong trade ties, which extend back to the 1833 U.S.-Thailand Treaty of Amity and Economic Relations. Thailand is the United States’ 21st largest goods trading partner and two-way goods trade between them totaled $42 billion in 2017. The U.S. goods trade deficit with Thailand was $20.4 billion in 2017, a 6.9 percent increase over 2016.


USTR Announces New GSP Eligibility Reviews of India, Indonesia, and Kazakhstan
04/12/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative announced today that it is reviewing the eligibility of India, Indonesia, and Kazakhstan in the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) based on concerns about the countries’ compliance with the program. The reviews are based on the Trump Administration’s new GSP country eligibility assessment process as well as GSP country eligibility petitions.
“GSP provides an important tool to help enforce the Trump Administration’s key principles of free and fair trade across the globe. The President is committed to ensuring that those countries who receive GSP benefits uphold their end of the bargain by continuing to meet the eligibility criteria outlined by Congress,” said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish.  “We hope that India, Indonesia, and Kazakhstan will work with us to address the concerns that led to these new reviews.”
For India, the GSP country eligibility review is based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP market access criterion.  For Indonesia, the review is based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP market access criterion and the GSP services and investment criterion.  Kazakhstan’s eligibility review is based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP worker rights criterion.
A public hearing and comment period for the new GSP reviews of India, Indonesia, and Kazakhstan will be announced in an upcoming Federal Register notice.
Background
In October 2017, USTR announced a new triennial process to assess GSP beneficiary country eligibility.  The first assessment period covered 25 Asian and Pacific island GSP beneficiary countries.  For each such country, USTR and other U.S. Government agencies examined the country’s policies and practices related to each of the 15 eligibility criteria established by Congress, including respecting arbitral awards in favor of U.S. citizens or corporations, combating child labor, respecting internationally recognized worker rights, providing adequate and effective intellectual property protection, reducing barriers to services trade and investment, and providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access. 
USTR also received petitions from stakeholders requesting new eligibility reviews.  Based on the information analyzed in its assessment process and on the petitions submitted by stakeholders, USTR has determined that the three new country eligibility reviews are warranted.  The lack of a self-initiated review with respect to a GSP country should not be interpreted as an affirmation that the country is meeting all of the GSP criteria.
India:  USTR is launching a self-initiated GSP eligibility review of India based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP market access criterion and is also accepting two petitions related to the same criterion.  The petitions filed by the U.S. dairy industry and the U.S. medical device industry requested a review of India’s GSP benefits, given Indian trade barriers affecting U.S. exports in those sectors.  India has implemented a wide array of trade barriers that create serious negative effects on U.S. commerce.  The acceptance of these petitions and the GSP self-initiated review will result in one overall review of India’s compliance with the GSP market access criterion. 
Indonesia:  USTR is launching a self-initiated GSP eligibility review of Indonesia based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP market access criterion and related to its compliance with the GSP services and investment criterion.  Indonesia has implemented a wide array of trade and investment barriers that create serious negative effects on U.S. commerce. 
Kazakhstan:  USTR is accepting a petition from the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) which alleges that Kazakhstan has not taken steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights, including the right to freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively.  The petition further alleges that Kazakhstan actively restricts the right to form trade unions and employer associations.  Serious concerns about restrictive legislation and the harassment of independent labor leaders have been raised repeatedly at the International Labor Organization (ILO).
The next GSP assessment process will start in the fall of 2018 and will cover beneficiary countries in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, and the Western Hemisphere.
The GSP is the largest and oldest U.S. trade preference program and is designed to promote economic development by allowing duty-free entry for thousands of products from designated beneficiary countries. Congress voted last month to renew the GSP through 2020.


USDA and USTR Finalize Access for U.S. Pork Exports to Argentina
04/13/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced that the government of Argentina has finalized technical requirements that will allow U.S. pork to be imported into Argentina for the first time since 1992.
Since the White House announced an agreement with Argentina last August, technical staff from the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative have been working with Argentina’s Ministry of Agro-Industry on new terms for market access that are practical, science-based and consistent with relevant international animal health standards. The finalization of these technical requirements means that U.S. exports of pork and natural swine casings can now resume.
“This breakthrough is the result of efforts by this Administration to help America’s farmers and ranchers reach new markets and ensure fair trade practices by our international partners,” Perdue said. “Once the people of Argentina get a taste of American pork products after all this time, we’re sure they’ll want more of it. This is a great day for our agriculture community and an example of how the Trump Administration is committed to supporting our producers by opening new markets for their products.”
“I welcome Argentina’s decision to allow imports of U.S. pork products and the economic opportunity it will afford to U.S. pork producers,” said Lighthizer.  “This effort demonstrates the Trump Administration’s continued commitment to address foreign trade barriers to American agriculture exports.”
The United States is the world’s top pork exporter, with global sales totaling $6.5 billion last year. Argentina is a potential $10-million-per-year market for America’s pork producers, with significant growth opportunities possible in subsequent years.
More details on Argentina’s export requirements are available from the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service Export Library at: https://www.fsis.usda.gov/wps/portal/fsis/topics/international-affairs/exporting-products/export-library-requirements-by-country/Argentina.
 


USTR Releases 2018 Special 301 Report on Intellectual Property Rights
04/27/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released the 2018 Special 301 Report, identifying trading partners that do not adequately or effectively protect and enforce intellectual property (IP) rights or otherwise deny market access to U.S. innovators and creators that rely on protection of their IP rights.  The Report calls on U.S. trading partners to address IP-related challenges with a special focus on the countries identified on the Watch List and Priority Watch List.
“The ideas and creativity of American entrepreneurs fuel economic growth and employ millions of hardworking Americans,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “This report sends a clear signal to our trading partners that the protection of Americans’ intellectual property rights is a top priority of the Trump Administration.”
According to U.S. Government estimates, IP-intensive industries directly and indirectly support 45.5 million American jobs, about 30 percent of all employment in the United States.  This Report draws attention to IP-related trade barriers and the steps foreign countries can take to open their markets to IP-intensive goods—steps that help to protect U.S. jobs, create opportunities for job growth, and promote free and fair trade that benefits all Americans.                                                                                 
Significant elements in the 2018 Special 301 Report include the following:
USTR identified 36 countries on the Priority Watch List or Watch List.  Trading partners on the Priority Watch List present the most significant concerns this year regarding inadequate or ineffective IP protection or enforcement or actions that otherwise limit market access for persons relying on IP protection. 
 
USTR identified 12 countries—Algeria, Argentina, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, India, Indonesia, Kuwait, Russia, Ukraine, and Venezuela—on the Priority Watch List.  The IP issues in these countries will be the subject of intense bilateral engagement during the coming year. 
 
China is on the Priority Watch List for the 14th consecutive year.  Longstanding and new IP concerns merit increased attention, including China’s coercive technology transfer practices, range of impediments to effective IP enforcement, and widespread infringing activity—including trade secret theft, rampant online piracy, and counterfeit manufacturing.
 
India also remains on the Priority Watch List this year for longstanding challenges in its IP framework and lack of sufficient measurable improvements, particularly with respect to patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and enforcement, as well as for new issues that have negatively affected U.S. right holders over the past year.
 
USTR downgrades Canada from the Watch List to the Priority Watch List this year for failing to make progress on overcoming important IP enforcement challenges.  Key concerns include poor border enforcement generally and, in particular, lack of customs authority to inspect or detain suspected counterfeit or pirated goods shipped through Canada, concerns about IP protections and procedures related to pharmaceuticals, deficient copyright protection, and inadequate transparency and due process regarding the protection of geographical indications.
 
USTR downgrades Colombia from the Watch List to the Priority Watch List for its longstanding failure to make meaningful progress in fulfilling obligations under the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement, such as obligations to amend its copyright law.  USTR is also announcing an Out-of-Cycle Review of Colombia to assess its progress in addressing these and other concerns. 
 
USTR also identified 24 trading partners on the Watch List:  Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Greece, Guatemala, Jamaica, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.  IP challenges in these countries also merit increased bilateral engagement in 2018-2019.  
 
USTR places Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on the Watch List.  For Saudi Arabia, there are concerns regarding recent deteriorations in IP protection for pharmaceutical products, in addition to outstanding concerns regarding IP enforcement and the continued use of unlicensed software by the government.  For the UAE, the placement on the Watch List is in response to longstanding concerns about the sale and transshipment of counterfeit goods and the establishment of collecting management organizations, as well as recent policy changes that may not provide adequate and effective IP protection for pharmaceutical products.
 
USTR closes the Out-of-Cycle Reviews (OCRs) for Kuwait without a change in status and Tajikistan with a downgrade to the Watch List.  Kuwait has not yet brought its copyright regime in line with its international commitments and still needs to make necessary improvements to the regulations implementing its 2016 Copyright and Related Rights Law.  Tajikistan failed to address unlicensed software use by government agencies during the OCR.  USTR announced that it will initiate OCRs for Colombia, Kuwait, and Malaysia to promote engagement and progress on specific IP opportunities and challenges.
 
USTR highlights engagement with trading partners to address concerns related to IP protection and enforcement and market access barriers with respect to pharmaceuticals and medical devices so that trading partners contribute their fair share to research and development of new treatments and cures.  For a fact sheet on USTR engagement on pharmaceutical and medical device issues, click here.
The Special 301 Report is an annual review of the global state of IP protection and enforcement.  USTR conducts the Special 301 review annually pursuant to Section 182 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended. 

To read the 2018 Special 301 Report, click here.
 
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
USTR continued to encourage broad and transparent public engagement in this year’s Special 301 review process.  USTR invited written submissions from the public through a request published in the Federal Register on December 27, 2017.  On March 8, 2018, USTR hosted a public hearing that provided the opportunity for interested persons to testify before the interagency Special 301 Subcommittee of the Trade Policy Staff Committee about issues relevant to the review.  The hearing featured testimony from witnesses representing foreign governments, industry, and non-governmental organizations.  USTR offered a post-hearing comment period during which hearing participants could submit additional information in support of, or in response to, hearing testimony and posted on its public website the full transcript and video of the Special 301 hearing.
The December 2017 notice in the Federal Register—and post-hearing comment period—drew submissions from 39 non-government stakeholders and 23 trading partner governments.  The submissions that USTR received are available to the public online at www.regulations.gov, docket number USTR-2017-0024. 
United States Issues First-Ever WTO Counter Notification Against India’s Market Price Support
05/09/2018
Washington, DC - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue today announced that the United States submitted a counter notification in the World Trade Organization (WTO) Committee on Agriculture (COA) on India’s market price support (MPS) for wheat and rice.  Filed on May 4, 2018, this is the first ever COA notification under the WTO Agreement on Agriculture regarding another country’s measures. 
“The United States expects our trading partners to comply with the reporting requirements they agreed to when joining the WTO,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Accurate reporting and improved transparency of these programs is an important step in ensuring that our trading partners are living up to their WTO commitments and helps achieve more market-based outcomes through the multilateral trading system.”
“American farmers are the most productive and competitive in the world, and with free and fair trade, they always do well in the international marketplace,” Secretary Perdue said.  “India represents a massive market, and we want greater access for U.S. products, but India must be transparent about their practices.  For trade to be free and fair, all parties must abide by their WTO commitments.”
Based on U.S. calculations, it appears that India has substantially underreported its market price support for wheat and rice.  When calculated according to WTO Agreement on Agriculture methodology, India’s market price support for wheat and rice far exceeded its allowable levels of trade distorting domestic support. The United States expects a robust discussion on how India implements and notifies its policies at the next COA meeting, which is scheduled for June 2018.
Background:
On May 4, 2018, the United States submitted a counter notification in the WTO Committee on Agriculture on India’s market price support for wheat and rice – based on publicly available information.  The United States has identified several areas of potential concern with India’s notification of its market price support for rice and wheat. These include issues with the quantity of production used in market price support calculations, the exclusion of state-level bonuses from calculations of applied administered prices, exclusion from India’s notifications of information on the total value of production (VoP) of wheat and rice (information necessary to assess compliance with WTO commitments), and issues with currency conversions.



USTR Robert Lighthizer Applauds the President’s Blueprint on Drug Prices
05/11/2018
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement today about President Trump’s blueprint to address high drug prices:
“It is not fair that U.S. consumers subsidize the global market by paying significantly higher prices for these lifesaving drugs,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Our trading partners need to contribute their fair share toward pharmaceutical research and development by providing robust levels of intellectual property protection and enforcement, as well as having fair and transparent drug pricing systems. At the President’s direction, we are going to use every tool available to ensure U.S. pharmaceuticals are fairly priced around the world.”
Last month, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative issued the 2018 Special 301 Report, which highlights concerns regarding intellectual property (IP) protection and enforcement and market access barriers affecting U.S. entities that rely on IP protection, including those in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. 


USTR Robert Lighthizer Issues Statement on Status of NAFTA Renegotiation
05/14/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement on the status of negotiations to modernize and rebalance the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA):
“For many weeks now, the United States, Mexico and Canada have engaged in intensive, continuous discussions to renegotiate NAFTA, building on the seven rounds of rigorous negotiations that have taken place since August 2017.  The negotiations have covered a large number of very complex issues, especially those objectives outlined by Congress as part of the bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority such as intellectual property, dairy and agriculture, de minimis levels, energy, labor and more. 
“The current NAFTA is a seriously flawed trade deal, and the Trump Administration is committed to getting the best possible trade agreement for all Americans.  The United States is ready to continue working with Mexico and Canada to achieve needed breakthroughs on these objectives.  Our teams will continue to be fully engaged.”


Public Hearings on the Proposed Section 301 Tariffs
05/14/2018
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold public hearings May 15-17, 2018 regarding the proposed tariffs on approximately $50 billion worth of Chinese imports.
The hearings will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The proposed tariffs are part of the U.S. response to China’s unfair trade practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation based on the findings in USTR’s investigation of China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.
The Federal Register notice publishing the proposed tariff list and soliciting public comment can be viewed here.
The public hearings will be held at the following times:
Tuesday, May 15, 2018 from 10:00 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Wednesday, May 16, 2018 from 9:00 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Thursday, May 17, 2018 from 9:00 AM – 1:30 PM EDT
Click here to view a schedule of witnesses.
NOTE: Media and attendees should note that the hearing is on the record but off-camera; no cameras or video or audio recording will be allowed in the hearing room. A full transcript of the hearing will be posted on USTR.gov and the Federal Register public docket in the investigation. 


United States Prevails in Showing EU Subsidies to Airbus Continue to Break WTO Rules
05/15/2018
On Appeal, WTO Confirms EU Failed to Comply with WTO Rules and Continues to Breach WTO Obligations with Massive Subsidies to Airbus                                                                                                         
Washington, D.C. – The Trump Administration today achieved an important victory in its World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute with the European Union (EU) and four of its member States regarding subsidies to Airbus.  In December 2011, the EU claimed to have removed the more than $18 billion in subsidized financing to Airbus that the WTO had previously found to be WTO inconsistent.  The United States disagreed and in September 2016, a WTO compliance panel found that the EU had failed to comply, finding that only two of the 36 “steps” the EU claimed to have taken to comply were even “actions.”
The WTO appellate report confirmed today that the United States was correct; the EU remains out of compliance with its WTO obligations.
“President Trump has been clear that we will use every available tool to ensure free and fair trade benefits American workers,” Ambassador Robert Lighthizer said. “This report confirms once and for all that the EU has long ignored WTO rules, and even worse, EU aircraft subsidies have cost American aerospace companies tens of billions of dollars in lost revenue. It is long past time for the EU to end these subsidies. Unless the EU finally takes action to stop breaking the rules and harming U.S. interests, the United States will have to move forward with countermeasures on EU products.” 
The appellate report issued today found that EU subsidies to high-value, twin-aisle aircraft have caused serious prejudice to U.S. interests.  The report found that billions of dollars in launch aid to the A350 XWB is causing significant lost sales of Boeing 787 aircraft.  The report found that subsidies to the A380 continue to cause significant lost sales of Boeing 747 aircraft, as well as impedance of exports of Boeing very large aircraft to the EU, Australia, China, Korea, Singapore, and UAE markets.  In addition, the EU did not appeal findings by the compliance panel that certain regional infrastructure grants cause adverse effects to the U.S. industry.
Additional Background Information
In May 2011, the Appellate Body confirmed that the EU and four of its member States (Germany, France, the UK, and Spain) conferred more than $18 billion in subsidized financing to Airbus and had caused Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and market share throughout the world.  In fact, in looking at the effect of the EU subsidies, the original WTO panel that first heard the case and the Appellate Body agreed that “[w]ithout the subsidies, Airbus would not have existed … and there would be no Airbus aircraft on the market.  None of the sales that the subsidized Airbus made would have occurred.”  Nothing in today’s compliance appellate report alters these findings. 
In contrast, the WTO rejected the EU assertion in the EU’s counter-complaint that U.S. subsidies were responsible for the viability of Boeing’s large civil aircraft production. A compliance panel found that only a single Washington tax measure was inconsistent with WTO rules, and the United States has appealed that limited finding.
The Boeing Company is the only American producer of large civil aircraft and is the largest single U.S. exporter.  Boeing is headquartered in Chicago, IL, and has major facilities around the country, including in Washington and South Carolina.  The company employs more than 140,000 people and delivered an industry record 763 commercial aircraft while booking 912 new orders in 2017.  Boeing is the largest American manufacturer of commercial jetliners.


United States and Indonesia Meet Under Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
05/16/2018
Jakarta, Indonesia – The United States and Indonesia held meetings on May 14, 2018 under their Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) to discuss ways to further strengthen trade relations and promote free, fair, and reciprocal trade between them.
During the meetings, the United States and Indonesia agreed to work together to address outstanding issues on agriculture, digital trade, financial services, fisheries, and labor.  The U.S. side also shared information on the recently announced Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) country practice review for Indonesia. 
At the meetings, the United States and Indonesia formally adopted a work plan on intellectual property that sets a roadmap for addressing concerns identified with respect to Indonesia in previous Special 301 Reports.  At a business lunch with representatives from the U.S. and Indonesian private sectors, Indonesian companies shared their plans to increase investments in the United States.  The two countries agreed to follow-up discussions on intellectual property rights, insurance, environment, and labor.
The meetings were chaired by Acting Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Karl Ehlers and Ministry of Trade Director General for International Trade Negotiations Iman Pambagyo. Additionally, the delegation for the United States included U.S. Ambassador to Indonesia Joseph Donovan, Foreign Agricultural Service Deputy Administrator Bob Macke, and officials from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, and State.  For Indonesia, officials were from the Ministries of Trade, Agriculture, Foreign Affairs, Law and Human Rights, Communications and Information Technology, Marine and Fisheries, and Manpower, as well as the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, the Financial Services Authority, and the Central Bank of Indonesia. 
Background
The United States had a $13.3 billion goods trade deficit with Indonesia in 2017.  Two-way goods trade between the United States and Indonesia totaled $27.1 billion in 2017, with U.S. goods exports to Indonesia totaling $6.9 billion and imports totaling $20.2 billion.  U.S. services exports to Indonesia totaled $2.4 billion, while services imports from Indonesia amounted to $908 million in 2016 (latest available data).  In 2017, Indonesia was the United States' 36th largest goods export market.


USTR Launches Review of Thailand’s GSP Eligibility Based on Concerns with Market Access for U.S. Pork
05/17/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative announced today that it is accepting a petition from the National Pork Producers Council (NPPC) challenging Thailand’s eligibility for the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) trade preference program. 
“GSP eligibility criteria are a core element to the success and fairness of the program,” said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish.  “Congress directs USTR to ensure that beneficiary countries are permitting equitable and reasonable market access for American goods.  The petition from the National Pork Producers Council raises important questions regarding Thailand’s compliance with this criterion for GSP eligibility.”
USTR’s acceptance of the NPPC petition will result in a public review of Thailand’s GSP eligibility, including a public hearing and comment period.  Details on the review will be announced in an upcoming Federal Register notice.
Background
The NPPC petition filed on April 16, 2018 alleges that Thailand fails to meet the GSP criterion requiring countries to provide “equitable and reasonable access” to its market. The NPPC alleges that Thailand maintains an array of import restrictions on U.S. pork, including a ban on uncooked pork and offal products and a ban on imports of pork produced with ractopamine.  NPPC contends that Thailand has not adopted a “maximum residue limit” for ractopamine in line with the United Nations’ Codex Alimentarius standard and has not otherwise produced a science-based risk assessment justifying its regulation.  Further, NPPC alleges that the government of Thailand rarely, if ever, grants import licenses for U.S. pork and that the few shipments that are licensed are charged excessive inspection fees.
A separate review of Thailand’s GSP eligibility based on a petition filed by the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) remains ongoing.


Deputy USTR Gerrish Discusses Trade Issues with Deputy Prime Minister Hue, Senior Vietnamese Officials
05/23/2018
Hanoi, Vietnam – Deputy United States Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish on May 22, 2018 held wide-ranging discussions with Vietnamese government officials on ways to strengthen the bilateral relationship, resolve priority issues, and reduce the U.S. bilateral goods trade deficit with Vietnam.
Recognizing the tremendous growth of the bilateral economic relationship, Ambassador Gerrish and Vietnam’s Deputy Prime Minister Hue agreed on the importance of further progress and cooperation including on the priority issues raised by President Trump and President Quang in their Joint Statement last November.  In particular, Ambassador Gerrish sought Vietnamese cooperation in resolving pressing bilateral issues related to automobiles, agricultural trade, and electronic payment services.  He also raised U.S. concerns about Vietnam’s proposed cybersecurity law, including the impact of localization requirements and restrictions on cross-border services for the future development and growth of Vietnam’s economy.
In addition to meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Hue, Ambassador Gerrish met with State Bank of Vietnam Deputy Governor Kim Anh, Vice Minister of Industry and Trade Hai, and Vice Minister of Transport Tho.  He also met with leaders of the U.S. business community, including the American Chamber of Commerce in Vietnam.
Background:
United States trade with Vietnam has expanded from $1 billion in 2001 to $55 billion in 2017.  At the same time, the bilateral U.S. trade in goods deficit with Vietnam last year increased to $38 billion, our 5th largest.  Vietnam is one of the fastest growing economies in Southeast Asia, with real GDP growth rates above 5 percent every year since 2000.


Deputy USTR Gerrish Discusses Next Steps on Trade with Philippine Economic Ministers
05/23/2018
Manila, Philippines– Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish on May 23, 2018 met with senior Philippine economic ministers, U.S. and Philippine business leaders, and Philippine Senators to discuss trade and investment issues and ways to enhance the bilateral economic relationship.
The visit follows up on the November 2017 meeting between President Trump and Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, during which the United States welcomed Philippine interest in deepening the bilateral trade relationship through consideration of a potential free trade agreement (FTA).
In meetings with Philippine Secretary of Finance Carlos Dominguez, Secretary of Trade and Industry Ramon Lopez, and Secretary of Agriculture Emmanuel Pinol, Ambassador Gerrish highlighted the long-standing importance of the U.S.-Philippine trade relationship and emphasized the importance of U.S. participation in Philippine infrastructure projects getting underway.
As an outcome of the meetings, the United States and the Philippines agreed to further cooperation under the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement to resolve outstanding priority market access issues and to consider next steps.
“President Trump has made clear his commitment to the Indo-Pacific region, and the United States values our very important trade relationship with the Philippines,” said Ambassador Gerrish. “Greater engagement on trade and investment will benefit both countries, and we look forward to resolving outstanding issues and exploring the best arrangement for strengthening and expanding our trade relations.”
Ambassador Gerrish also met with Philippine Senators and leaders of the U.S. business community in the Philippines, including the American Chamber of Commerce, to obtain their views on ways to strengthen trade opportunities in the Philippine market.
Background:
The Philippines is currently the United States’ 31st largest goods trading partner. In 2017, bilateral U.S. goods trade with the Philippines was $20.1 billion, with U.S. exports of $8.5 billion and U.S. imports from the Philippines of $11.6 billion. The United States goods trade deficit with Philippines was $3.2 billion in 2017. U.S. services exports to Philippines totaled $2.6 billion, while U.S. services imports from Philippines amounted to $6.1 billion in 2016 (latest data available). The United States services trade deficit with the Philippines was $3.5 billion.


United States Takes Action Against Canadian Trade Measures That Discriminate Against U.S. Wine
05/25/2018
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced today that the Trump Administration has requested that the World Trade Organization (WTO) establish a dispute settlement panel to examine unfair regulations governing the sale of wine in grocery stores in the Canadian province of British Columbia (BC).  The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) is challenging BC regulations that discriminate against U.S. and other imported wine by allowing only BC wine to be sold on regular grocery store shelves. 
“Canada is an important market for U.S. winemakers,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Discriminatory regulations implemented by British Columbia are unfairly keeping U.S. wine off of grocery store shelves, and that is unacceptable.  Canada and all Canadian provinces, including BC, must play by the rules.  The Trump Administration will continue to hold our trading partners accountable by vigorously enforcing U.S. rights under our trade agreements and by promoting fair and reciprocal trade through all available tools, including the WTO.”
“We want customers in British Columbia to have the opportunity to buy our great American wine. The practice of discriminating against U.S. wine is unfair and cannot be tolerated any longer. Our wine producers rely on export markets and they deserve fair treatment, especially by our northern neighbors in British Columbia,” Secretary Perdue said.
The BC regulations exclude all imported wine from grocery store shelves, a new and growing retail channel for wine sales in BC.  Such discriminatory measures limit sales opportunities for U.S. wine producers and provide a substantial competitive advantage for BC wine.  These regulations appear to breach Canada’s WTO commitments and have adversely affected U.S. wine producers. 
Additional Background Information
The United States is challenging BC regulations that were amended in April 2015 to permit the sale of wine in grocery stores.  The amended regulations provide two options for grocery stores to sell wine.  Under the “wine on shelf” option, a grocery store may sell wine anywhere within the grocery store, but only BC wine may be sold on grocery store shelves.
Imported wine may only be sold in grocery stores under a “store within a store” option.  Under the “store within a store” option, wine sales must be conducted in a “wine store” that is physically separated from the grocery store, has controlled access, and has separate cash registers from the grocery store’s cash registers.  As a “store within a store”, a grocery store may sell both BC wine and imported wine. 
In 2017, U.S. wine exports to BC totaled $56 million, and U.S. wine had a 10 percent share of the BC market.  A number of grocery stores are already selling BC wine on their shelves under the “wine on shelf” option.  However, we are not aware of any grocery stores selling wine pursuant to the more costly “store within a store” option.   BC’s regulations limit choices and raise costs for Canadian consumers. 
The United States held consultations with Canada in 2017, but those consultations did not resolve the dispute.  Requesting the establishment of a panel is the next step in the WTO dispute settlement process. 


Deputy USTR Jeffrey Gerrish Statement on APEC Trade Ministers Meeting
05/26/2018
Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea – Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish attended the 24th Ministers Responsible for Trade (MRT) meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), hosted by Papua New Guinea on May 25-26, 2018. 
At the APEC MRT meeting, Ambassador Gerrish underscored the United States’ commitment to promoting free, fair, and reciprocal trade throughout the Asia-Pacific region.
“Under the leadership of President Trump and Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, the United States is fully engaged in strengthening our bilateral trade relationships throughout the Asia-Pacific region,” said Ambassador Gerrish.  “We are committed to working with APEC economies to drive positive outcomes that meaningfully open markets, advance high standards, and address trade distorting policies and practices.”
Through participation in APEC, the United States advances key trade issues such as the promotion of digital trade, improvement of services market access and competiveness, and implementation of other measures that facilitate trade.  The United States also works with APEC partners to address barriers to U.S. exports to the region.  By raising standards in the Asia-Pacific, the United States seeks to ensure that trade is truly free and fair. 
On the margins of the MRT meetings, Ambassador Gerrish met with many trade ministers of APEC member economies.
Background:
The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is the premier economic forum in the Asia Pacific region.  The United States is a founding member of APEC, which consists of 21 member economies.
U.S. goods and services trade with APEC economies totaled $2.8 trillion in 2016 (latest data available).  The U.S. goods trade deficit, however, with APEC countries was $620.3 billion in 2017.
According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. goods exports to APEC countries supported an estimated 4.2 million jobs in 2015 (latest data available).
APEC provides an opportunity for the United States to address this trade deficit by engaging trade partners to expand market access for U.S. exports and address unfair trade practices.
 


Joint Statement on Trilateral Meeting of the Trade Ministers of the United States, Japan, and the European Union
05/31/2018
Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative, Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, and Mrs. Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, met in Paris on 31st May 2018.
The Ministers reiterated their concern with the non-market-oriented policies of third countries and discussed actions being taken and possible measures that could be undertaken in the near future.
The Ministers confirmed their shared objective to address non market-oriented policies and practices that lead to severe overcapacity, create unfair competitive conditions for our workers and businesses, hinder the development and use of innovative technologies, and undermine the proper functioning of international trade, including where existing rules are not effective.
The Ministers agreed that market-oriented conditions are fundamental to a fair, mutually advantageous global trading system and discussed various elements or indications that signal that non-market oriented policies and practices exist for businesses and industries.  Accordingly, they endorsed the annexed joint statement on market-oriented conditions and agreed to further their discussion on this issue and to engage with other trading partners on identifying means to maintain market-oriented conditions
In this regard, the Ministers concurred on the need to deepen and accelerate discussions regarding possible new rules on industrial subsidies and SOEs so as to promote a more level playing field for our workers and businesses.
The Ministers therefore endorsed the attached joint scoping paper defining the basis for the development of stronger rules on industrial subsidies and SOEs. On that basis, they agreed to deepen that work, and expressed their intention to begin their respective internal steps before the end of 2018 with the aim of initiating a negotiation soon thereafter. The Ministers emphasized the need to ensure the participation of key trading partners in these future negotiations.
The Ministers further confirmed their shared view that no country should require or pressure technology transfer from foreign companies to domestic companies, including, for example, through the use of joint venture requirements, foreign equity limitations, administrative review and licensing processes, or other means. 
In this connection, the Ministers endorsed the annexed joint statement on technology transfer policies and practices.
The Ministers further agreed to deepen cooperation and exchange of information, including with other like-minded partners, to find effective means to address trade-distorting policies of third countries, including harmful forced technology transfer policies and practices, and where appropriate, to pursue dispute settlement proceedings at the WTO.
The Ministers acknowledged that resolving the issue of non-compliance by some governments with their WTO transparency obligations is a priority in the work for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the WTO monitoring function.  They agreed to continue cooperation in the WTO to achieve full implementation of existing WTO rules.
The Ministers welcome the progress of exploratory work of the Joint Statement E-Commerce Initiative in the WTO and reaffirmed their strong commitment to advance the discussions toward future WTO negotiations.
The Ministers reaffirmed their cooperation in international fora, such as the G7, G20 and the OECD and in sectoral initiatives such as the Global Steel Forum and Governments/Authorities Meeting on Semiconductors, to address market-distorting measures.
















USTR Issues Tariffs on Chinese Products in Response to Unfair Trade Practices
06/15/2018
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released a list of products imported from China that will be subject to additional tariffs as part of the U.S. response to China’s unfair trade practices related to the forced transfer of American technology and intellectual property.   
On May 29, 2018, President Trump stated that USTR shall announce by June 15 the imposition of an additional duty of 25 percent on approximately $50 billion worth of Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including those related to China’s “Made in China 2025” industrial policy.  Today’s action comes after an exhaustive Section 301 investigation in which USTR found that China’s acts, policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation are unreasonable and discriminatory, and burden U.S. commerce. 
“We must take strong defensive actions to protect America’s leadership in technology and innovation against the unprecedented threat posed by China’s theft of our intellectual property, the forced transfer of American technology, and its cyber attacks on our computer networks,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.  “China’s government is aggressively working to undermine America’s high-tech industries and our economic leadership through unfair trade practices and industrial policies like ‘Made in China 2025.’  Technology and innovation are America’s greatest economic assets and President Trump rightfully recognizes that if we want our country to have a prosperous future, we must take a stand now to uphold fair trade and protect American competitiveness.”
The list of products issued today covers 1,102 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $50 billion in 2018 trade values.  This list was compiled based on extensive interagency analysis and a thorough examination of comments and testimony from interested parties.  It generally focuses on products from industrial sectors that contribute to or benefit from the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy, which include industries such as aerospace, information and communications technology, robotics, industrial machinery, new materials, and automobiles.  The list does not include goods commonly purchased by American consumers such as cellular telephones or televisions.
This list of products consists of two sets of U.S tariff lines.  The first set contains 818 lines of the original 1,333 lines that were included on the proposed list published on April 6.  These lines cover approximately $34 billion worth of imports from China.  USTR has determined to impose an additional duty of 25 percent on these 818 product lines after having sought and received views from the public and advice from the appropriate trade advisory committees.  Customs and Border Protection will begin to collect the additional duties on July 6, 2018.
The second set contains 284 proposed tariff lines identified by the interagency Section 301 Committee as benefiting from Chinese industrial policies, including the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy.  These 284 lines, which cover approximately $16 billion worth of imports from China, will undergo further review in a public notice and comment process, including a public hearing.  After completion of this process, USTR will issue a final determination on the products from this list that would be subject to the additional duties.
USTR recognizes that some U.S. companies may have an interest in importing items from China that are covered by the additional duties. Accordingly, USTR will soon provide an opportunity for the public to request the exclusion of particular products from the additional duties subject to this action.  USTR will issue a notice in the Federal Register with details regarding this process within the next few weeks.
 
Background
President Trump announced on March 22, 2018, that USTR shall publish a proposed list of products and any intended tariff increases in order to address the acts, policies, and practices of China that are unreasonable or discriminatory and that burden or restrict U.S. commerce. 
These acts, policies and practices of China include those that coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to domestic Chinese enterprises.  They bolster China’s stated intention of seizing economic dominance of certain advanced technology sectors as set forth in its industrial plans, such as “Made in China 2025.”  (See USTR Section 301 Report here.)
On April 3, USTR announced a proposed list of 1,333 products that may be subject to an additional duty of 25 percent, and sought comments from interested persons and the appropriate trade advisory committees.
Interested persons filed approximately 3,200 written submissions.  In addition, USTR and the Section 301 Committee convened a three-day public hearing from May 15-17, 2018, during which 121 witnesses provided testimony and responded to questions. The public submissions and a transcript of the hearing are available on www.regulations.gov in docket number USTR-2018-0005.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the President’s Additional China Trade Action
06/18/2018
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement in support of the President’s direction that the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) identify $200 billion worth of Chinese goods for additional 10 percent tariffs to address China’s harmful trade policies and practices:
“I support the President’s action.  The initial tariffs that the President asked us to put in place were proportionate and responsive to forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft by the Chinese.  It is very unfortunate that instead of eliminating these unfair trading practices China said that it intends to impose unjustified tariffs targeting U.S. workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.  At the President’s direction, USTR is preparing the proposed tariffs to offset China’s action.”
USTR will announce the additional tariffs proposed and provide a similar legal process as the proposed tariffs announced on April 3, 2018 and which are now implemented. No additional tariffs will go into effect until the legal process is complete.


Statement by Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer on Retaliatory Duties
06/26/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding new tariffs against the United States by certain WTO Members, including the European Union:  
“President Trump has taken actions on trade in steel and aluminum to protect our national security interests.  These actions are wholly legitimate and fully justified, both as a matter of U.S. law and WTO rules.  By contrast, the European Union has concocted a groundless legal theory to justify immediate tariffs on U.S. exports.  Other WTO Members, including China, have adopted a similar approach.
“These retaliatory tariffs underscore the complete hypocrisy that governs so much of the global trading system.  For months, the EU, China, and others have criticized the trade policy of the United States, while claiming to champion the WTO.  But their recent tariffs prove that they simply ignore WTO rules whenever doing so is convenient.
“Article XXI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade gives broad authority to WTO Members to take action necessary to protect essential security interests.  For decades, the United States has consistently held the position that actions taken pursuant to Article XXI are not justiciable by any panel of the WTO.  In other words, each sovereign country must have the power to decide, for itself, what actions are essential to its security.  Any other reading of the Article would represent an unacceptable constraint on the freedom and independence of all WTO Members.
“President Trump’s actions regarding steel and aluminum plainly fall within the legitimate scope of Article XXI.  Faced with massive excess capacity that puts the very future of our steel and aluminum industries at risk, President Trump took certain measures that he deemed essential to the national security of the United States.  These measures were implemented only after long and careful analysis, and after all trading partners had the chance to address our concerns.
“While the United States has acted responsibly here, the European Union and its followers have not.  Rather than work with the United States, they have retaliated with tariffs designed to punish U.S. companies and workers.  In an effort to give cover to this blatant disregard for WTO rules, they claim to be acting in reliance on a narrow exception that applies only in response to a safeguard measure.  That exception does not apply here, however, because the United States has not taken a safeguard measure.  The President’s actions here were taken under a U.S. national security statute – not under the separate U.S. statute for safeguard measures.  In fact, there is no credible basis for the EU’s legal theory.
“When the EU and others falsely assert the U.S. steel and aluminum duties are safeguard measures, and impose retaliatory duties under this pretense, they do great damage to the multilateral trading system.  Indeed, they show that they are willing to distort WTO rules to mean whatever they want, whenever they want.
“Faced with these unjustified tariffs, the United States will take all necessary actions under both U.S. law and international rules to protect its interests.”
Background:
In January 2018, the U.S. Secretary of Commerce issued reports finding that imports of articles of steel and aluminum threaten to impair national security.[1]  On March 8, the President concurred with the Secretary of Commerce’s finding and imposed tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum.[2]   The tariffs became effective for some WTO members on March 23, and they became effective for others on June 1.
Excess capacity, driven by China’s non-market economic policies, has made it impossible for U.S. producers to make a decent return and the investments necessary to ensure their long-term viability.  No reasonable person disagrees that Chinese excess capacity is swamping and undermining markets worldwide.
The U.S. steel and aluminum duties are justified under international agreements the United States and its trading partners have approved.  Since 1947, the U.S. Government has held the consistent view that any country can invoke Article XXI of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) to take the action it considers necessary to protect its essential security interests.
The U.S. duties were imposed by the President pursuant to Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, entitled “Safeguarding National Security”.  This is a national security action, plain and simple.  The United States is not invoking Article XIX of the GATT, permitting emergency safeguard actions, to justify its duties.  So any assertion that others’ retaliatory duties are a justified response to a U.S. “safeguard action” is, on its face, ridiculous.
China, Russia, the European Union, India, and Turkey requested consultations with the United States under the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.  In response, the United States explained that the duties imposed on imports of steel and aluminum are not safeguards action under GATT Article XIX, but rather duties imposed for reasons of national security under GATT Article XXI.  Retaliatory duties on U.S. imports have been imposed by China (April 2), Mexico (June 5), Turkey (June 21), and the European Union (June 22). Canada has indicated that it may impose retaliatory duties on U.S. imports.  India, Japan, and Russia have notified the WTO of their proposed suspension of commitments under the Agreement on Safeguards.
Because the United States has not invoked and does not seek to benefit from the right to take emergency safeguard action under Article XIX or the WTO Agreement on Safeguards, no WTO Member has a right to retaliate with duties under an Agreement that does not even apply.  Accordingly, the duties that have been announced on U.S. exports are completely without justification under international rules.


Trump Administration Looks Toward the Future U.S.-African Trade and Investment Relationship
06/29/2018
WASHINGTON – Trade in goods between the United States and sub-Saharan Africa increased nearly six percent to $39 billion between 2015 and 2017, according to a report delivered to Congress today by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR).
The report details the state of trade and investment between the United States and the countries meeting eligibility criteria under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) for duty-free access to the U.S. market for more than 1,800 of their products.  The report examines developments in AGOA over the last two years.  Forty countries are currently eligible for AGOA, including The Gambia and Eswatini (formerly Swaziland) countries that regained their AGOA beneficiary status as of January 1, 2018.
“With today’s report and next month’s AGOA Forum, the Trump Administration is continuing to build on AGOA’s success by strengthening bilateral trade relationships in sub-Saharan Africa with the goal of establishing a free trade agreement that could serve as a model for developing countries,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “By reducing barriers to trade, we create more opportunity, jobs, and wealth for workers in both the United States and Africa.”
In order to participate in AGOA, countries must establish or make continual progress toward establishing a market-based economy, the rule of law, political pluralism, and the right to due process.  Additionally, countries must eliminate barriers to U.S. trade and investment, enact policies to reduce poverty, combat corruption, and protect human rights.
“By providing new market opportunities for African exports, AGOA has helped bolster African economic growth and alleviate poverty on the continent.  Additionally, AGOA has helped create a more conducive environment for American investment and business interests as African markets continue to expand,” the USTR report states.
Expanding the U.S.-Africa trade relationship beyond the African Growth and Opportunity Act will be the focus of the AGOA Forum to be held in Washington, DC on July 11-12.  The Forum’s 2018 theme is “Forging New Strategies for U.S.-Africa Trade and Investment.”


USTR Lighthizer Welcomes Extension of Trade Promotion Authority
07/02/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement about the extension of Trade Promotion Authority:
“The President is pleased that Congress has extended Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) for three more years, which he requested as part of his Trade Agenda.  Extension of TPA is critical to negotiating accountable, enforceable and reciprocal trade deals that will benefit American workers, farmers and ranchers.  The Trump Administration is pursuing a number of potential bilateral free trade agreements, and TPA extension means we may continue to aggressively pursue these opportunities.”


USTR Releases Product Exclusion Process for Chinese Products Subject to Section 301 Tariffs
07/06/2018
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced a process to obtain product exclusions from the additional tariffs in effect on certain products imported from China under the U.S. response to China’s unfair trade practices related to the forced transfer of U.S. technology and intellectual property.
Today, additional tariffs of 25 percent come into effect for Chinese products imported under 818 tariff lines, covering a trade value of approximately $34 billion in 2018. These tariff lines contain products identified as benefiting from China’s industrial policies, including the “Made in China 2025” program. The list of products subject to tariffs was determined by a 90-day process that included public hearings and a notice and comment period.
USTR is providing an opportunity for the public to request exclusion of a particular product from the additional duties to address situations that warrant excluding a particular product within a subheading, but not the tariff subheading as a whole.
A Federal Register notice outlining the criteria and process for a product exclusion request will be published, and public requests, responses, and replies will be received via Regulations.gov. In making its determination on each request, USTR may consider whether a product is available from a source outside of China, whether the additional duties would cause severe economic harm to the requestor or other U.S. interests, and whether the particular product is strategically important or related to Chinese industrial programs including “Made in China 2025”.
The exclusion process has the following important dates and features:
The public will have 90 days to file a request for a product exclusion; the request period will end on October 9, 2018.
Following public posting of the filed request on Regulations.gov, the public will have 14 days to file responses to the request for product exclusion.  After the close of the 14 day response period, interested persons will have an additional 7 days to reply to any responses received in support of or opposition to the request.
Exclusions will be effective for one year upon the publication of the exclusion determination in the Federal Register, and will apply retroactively to July 6, 2018.
Because exclusions will be made on a product basis, a particular exclusion will apply to all imports of the product, regardless of whether the importer filed a request. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection will apply the tariff exclusions based on the product.
The tariff action on China is part of USTR’s Section 301 investigation and follows President Trump’s announcement in March that the United States would impose tariffs on Chinese imports and take other actions in response to China’s policies that coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to Chinese enterprises. These policies bolster China’s stated intention of seizing economic leadership in advanced technology as set forth in its industrial plans, such as “Made in China 2025.”
The text of the Federal Register notice can be viewed here. Formal publication of the Federal Register notice will occur next week.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the WTO Panel Report in Canada’s Challenge to U.S. Countervailing Duties on Supercalendered Paper
07/06/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement in regard to the panel report circulated by the World Trade Organization (WTO) in the dispute by Canada concerning U.S. countervailing duties on supercalendered paper:
“The WTO agreements, as originally negotiated, clearly provided the United States with effective legal grounds to combat unfairly subsidized imports that disadvantage our workers and businesses.  The panel report represents the latest example of judicial activism at the WTO seeking to undermine those laws and make it harder for Members to address unfair trade.  The United States has long warned that the attack on our trade laws risks undermining the credibility of the WTO, and we again urge Members to consider the harm resulting from such rulings.
“I would also note the countervailing duties at issue here were terminated on July 5.  Remarkably, however, Canada has refused to drop this litigation.  In other words, Canada appears to be more interested in attacking our anti-subsidy laws than in resolving this particular dispute.  By pursuing this litigation, Canada is helping non-market countries like China that are more likely to use the type of hidden subsidies at issue in this case.  The end result of such policies will be a global trading system that encourages unfair subsidies and puts true market-oriented companies – in both Canada and the United States – at an unfair disadvantage.”
Background of the Dispute
In March 2016, Canada filed a request for WTO dispute settlement consultations with the United States concerning countervailing duties imposed on supercalendered paper from Canada.  The United States and Canada held consultations on May 4, 2016.  The Dispute Settlement Body established a panel on July 21, 2016. 
In this case, the United States discovered Canadian subsidies which the Canadian firms failed to disclose during the U.S. investigation. After the Department of Commerce implemented tariffs to account for these market distortions, the Canadian government sued the United States at the WTO.
Among other things, the panel report upheld Canada’s claims with respect to U.S. Department of Commerce treatment of subsidies that exporters refused to disclose in response to Commerce questionnaires, but which Commerce subsequently discovered during the course of the countervailing duty investigation. 
On July 5, the Department of Commerce terminated the countervailing duties.  


Statement By U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Section 301 Action
07/10/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding action under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974:
“On Friday, in response to unfair Chinese practices, the United States began imposing tariffs of 25 percent on approximately $34 billion worth of Chinese imports.  These tariffs will eventually cover up to $50 billion in Chinese imports as legal processes conclude.  The products targeted by the tariffs are those that benefit from China’s industrial policy and forced technology transfer practices.
“China has since retaliated against the United States by imposing tariffs on $34 billion in U.S. exports to China, and threatening tariffs on another $16 billion.  It did this without any international legal basis or justification.
“As a result of China’s retaliation and failure to change its practices, the President has ordered USTR to begin the process of imposing tariffs of 10 percent on an additional $200 billion of Chinese imports. This is an appropriate response under the authority of Section 301 to obtain the elimination of China’s harmful industrial policies. USTR will proceed with a transparent and comprehensive public notice and comment process prior to the imposition of final tariffs, as we have for previous tariffs.
“On August 14, 2017, President Trump instructed USTR to begin the Section 301 process.  For many years, China has pursued abusive trading practices with regard to intellectual property and innovation.  USTR conducted a thorough investigation over an 8-month period, including public hearings and submissions.  In a detailed 200-page report, USTR found that China has been engaging in industrial policy which has resulted in the transfer and theft of intellectual property and technology to the detriment of our economy and the future of our workers and businesses. 
“USTR’s Section 301 report found that Chinese policies and practices force U.S. innovators to hand over their technology and know-how as the price of doing business in China.  China also uses non-economic means to obtain U.S. technology, such as using state-owned funds and companies to buy up American businesses and imposing burdensome intellectual property licensing requirements in China.  USTR’s report also found that the Chinese government sponsors the outright theft of U.S. technology for commercial benefit.  These practices are an existential threat to America’s most critical comparative advantage and the future of our economy: our intellectual property and technology. 
“For over a year, the Trump Administration has patiently urged China to stop its unfair practices, open its market, and engage in true market competition.  We have been very clear and detailed regarding the specific changes China should undertake.  Unfortunately, China has not changed its behavior – behavior that puts the future of the U.S. economy at risk. Rather than address our legitimate concerns, China has begun to retaliate against U.S. products.  There is no justification for such action. 
“As in the past, the United States is willing to engage in efforts that could lead to a resolution of our concerns about China’s unfair trade practices and to China opening its market to U.S. goods and services.  In the meantime, we will remain vigilant in defending the ability of our workers and businesses to compete on a fair and reciprocal basis.”
The proposed list and process for the public notice and comment period is set out in a Federal Register notice, which will be published within the next few days.  To view the notice, including the list of proposed tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese imports, click here.


Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Opening Ceremony of the 2018 U.S.-Sub-Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum (AGOA Forum)
07/11/2018
Ambassador Lighthizer:
Good morning, ministers and distinguished guests.  I join Deputy Secretary Sullivan in welcoming you all to the 17th AGOA Ministerial and to Washington, DC.
As has been said, this is my second Forum.  Last year, I had the privilege of leading the U.S. delegation to the AGOA Forum in Lome, Togo.
Bernadette [Legzim-Balouki, Togolese Minister of Trade and Private Sector Promotion] and her team did a fabulous job. It was a wonderful visit. I got to meet the President, which was a great honor, and I had the opportunity to talk with him. And I began the process of learning about Africa. I hope to continue that learning process here today. It’s not that I was a complete novice to Africa, but there is an enormous amount to learn, and an enormous amount of ignorance, so it’s very important that I continue the process, and I look forward to that.
I also had the opportunity to meet with many of you, and I look forward to renewing those conversations.
It was during that visit that I observed how important the United States’ trade and economic relationship is with Africa. 
The opportunities I have had since that trip to talk with American companies and African leaders about doing business on the Continent have only confirmed the importance of this relationship to me.
I can assure you that this Administration is strongly committed to Africa.  We want to deepen our trade ties so that workers and businesses throughout the United States and across Africa can benefit as much as possible.
As you all know and has been said here already, Africa has some of the fastest growing economies in the world and a rapidly expanding middle class.  These trends should result in increased demands for American products and services, and the U.S. private sector has taken notice.
We’re seeing this play out in many tangible ways.  More small and medium-sized U.S. companies are doing business on the Continent—often directly with African businesses, not just with governments and state-owned enterprises. These companies are branching out into new sectors such as information technology and service industries.
AGOA has provided an important framework for our economic engagement during these last two decades.  But by 2025—when AGOA is set to expire—it will be a quarter century old, and we cannot predict what will happen at that time. 
We should seize the moment by pursuing a new, forward-looking vision for the future of U.S.-African trade.  This vision should recognize that sub-Saharan Africa looks very different in 2018 than it did in 2000 when AGOA was first created. We believe that there are countries in Africa that are ready to move from AGOA beneficiary to U.S. free trade agreement partner.    
We hope we can work with a willing partner to create an agreement that can serve as a template for additional deals on the continent. Doing so would build on the success of AGOA and reinforce the larger project of regional economic integration with Africa.
I look forward during these meetings to continuing this conversation, to gaining your thoughts on how we can proceed, and, as I say, learning more about Africa.
Thank you very much, and welcome again to the AGOA Forum.


Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer at the Opening Plenary of the 2018 U.S.-Sub-Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum (AGOA Forum)
07/11/2018
Ambassador Lighthizer:
Welcome to this year’s AGOA Forum.  I am pleased to be with you all this morning.  The theme for this AGOA Forum is “Forging New Strategies for U.S. – Africa Trade and Investment.”  I’d like to spend my time with you addressing one very specific new strategy—the Trump Administration’s desire to negotiate a model free trade agreement with a sub-Saharan African country.  
It has long been the desire of the United States for AGOA-beneficiary countries to advance to a point where it would be possible to talk about a comprehensive and more permanent framework to deepen our relationship.  Indeed, AGOA was designed to encourage alignment around best practices in order to pave the way for a free trade agreement between the United States and sub-Saharan African countries.  Our Congress reinforced this point during the reauthorization of AGOA in 2015 when it expressly instructed the USTR to pursue free trade agreement negotiations with AGOA eligible countries.  In part because of AGOA’s success, we believe that many of you are at the point where we could enter into FTA negotiations.  If you are willing, we are eager to take this next logical step in our relationship.    
Let me start by explaining why I believe the time is right for this initiative and why it makes sense, both for the United States and sub-Saharan Africa.
My trip to the AGOA Forum in Togo last year, the opportunities I’ve had to meet my fellow trade ministers from the Continent, and consultations I’ve had with Congress, business leaders, and others have convinced me that deepening the U.S.-Africa commercial relationship is critical to both American and African interests. It is a goal shared by both sides. 
Right now, our trade and investment involvement is centered around AGOA.  I know your governments place a strong value on this program.  We do as well.  Since its enactment in 2000, it has had an important and positive impact on U.S.-African trade.  AGOA has also provided incentives for reforms that promote rules-based, market-oriented economies, and it has supported regional integration. 
Just two weeks ago, my office issued a report on the implementation of the AGOA program over the past two years.  The report highlighted many of these achievements.  But the report also confirms what I heard from many of you last year – that while AGOA has brought important benefits, there remains much more to be done to fully realize the potential of U.S.-Africa trade. 
One-way tariff preferences can only do so much to drive trade and investment.  When corporations decide where to invest and do business, much more goes into the equation.  U.S. companies value clear rules of the road and a sound business environment.  With the renewal of AGOA until 2025, we have a unique opportunity to use the next several years to build on and go beyond this one program.   
To be clear, the United States is not abandoning AGOA for either the short term or the long term. But there are compelling reasons to pursue a comprehensive and more permanent trade and investment framework to govern trade between the United States and Africa. 
First, American companies are increasingly recognizing that Africa’s growth presents immense opportunities.  Just in the last several years, many U.S. companies that never before had a large footprint on the continent have made major investments there. These companies range from Kellogg’s Cereal to Marriott Hotels to Prudential Insurance to PVH, one of the largest apparel companies in the world. I’m just as encouraged by many U.S. small- and medium-sized businesses also pursuing business across the continent. 
Second, as you know far better than I, there is a growing need for infrastructure and other development projects in Africa to support continued economic growth and enable Africa to tap into global markets.  The United States—and, in particular, American businesses and the African diaspora in the United States—are well-positioned to assist with these efforts. 
Third, many African countries have already signed free trade agreements with some of America’s largest trade competitors, like the EU and China.  Many of these competitors are also investing heavily in sub-Saharan Africa.  My sense, however, is that many of you recognize the value of diversifying your commercial ties, and I know you recognize what American companies bring to the table, in terms of quality, state-of-the-art products and services, and reputable, reliable business practices. 
Fourth, establishing a more stable, permanent, and mutually-beneficial trade and investment framework with the United States could be transformative for Africa. The most tangible benefit for countries that enter into FTAs with us is that they could lock in the benefits of AGOA, bringing the certainty businesses need for long-term business decisions.  An FTA with the United States will also send a strong signal of commitment to high standards of transparency and due process, which is critical to attracting business investment. 
I hope this Forum and my discussions with many of you will help inform our approach. Our current thinking is based on three core objectives: (1) pursue a bilateral agreement with a willing partner; (2) ensure that this agreement is crafted so that it can serve as a model that can be rolled out to other willing partners in sub-Saharan Africa in the future; and (3) ensure that the model agreement will reinforce regional and continental integration in Africa.
Let me conclude by emphasizing that we are excited about the prospect of entering into a successful free trade agreement with an African country. We believe that this will be good for the United States, the FTA partner, and ultimately Africa.
We do not believe this will be an easy process to be sure, but I think it’s one that is well worth the effort.
We have heard expressions of interest from several of you about this initiative, and I encourage others interested in it to contact my office.  We have not made any final decision about which country or countries we will negotiate with to develop a model agreement.  But I can tell you this much: We are serious and intend to move quickly.  I hope to announce exploratory talks soon. 
I will now invite my distinguished co-chair, Minister Adan Mohamed, to share his thoughts and then we will open the floor for discussion.  Thank you very much.


Fourth Meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group
07/13/2018
London, United Kingdom – The United Kingdom and the United States held the fourth meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group on 10th and 11th July, and the second meeting of the U.S.-UK Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) Dialogue on 9th July.
The Working Group, established in July 2017 by UK Secretary of State for International Trade and President of the Board of Trade The Rt Hon Dr Liam Fox MP and United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, is focusing on providing commercial continuity for UK and U.S. businesses, workers, and consumers as the UK leaves the EU and exploring ways to strengthen trade and investment ties.  The Working Group is also laying the groundwork for a potential, future free trade agreement once the UK has left the EU, and exploring areas in which the two countries can collaborate to promote open markets and free and fair trade around the world.
The delegations were led by officials from the Department for International Trade (DIT) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) and included representatives from a wide range of UK and U.S. government departments and agencies. 
The UK and United States are working together to deepen their strong trade and investment relationship.  The Working Group covered a range of topics, including industrial and agricultural goods; services and investment, including financial services; digital trade; intellectual property rights; regulatory issues related to trade; and Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs).
The second meeting of the U.S.-UK SME Dialogue brought together U.S. and UK SMEs with government officials from both countries. Delegates discussed ways to deepen trade and investment and enhance SME cooperation including:
resources available from both governments to assist SMEs with their export plans;
access to finance and wider business support for SMEs;
trade-related regulatory issues U.S. and UK SMEs have encountered; and  
intellectual property protection.
Since the launch of the Working Group, in addition to launching the SME dialogue, the UK and United States have:
Jointly released: 1) the ‘Doing business in the U.S. and UK: resources for small business’ guide as a key tool for SMEs seeking to benefit from U.S.-UK trade, and 2) intellectual property protection toolkits for SMEs;
Agreed to raise awareness of the close regional connections between the U.S. and UK in the ocean and marine technology sector (i.e. Blue Economy) and explore pilot opportunities for U.S.-UK trade promotion and trade show collaboration focused on SMEs in 2019;
Agreed to hold the 3rd U.S.-UK SME Dialogue in the United States before the end of the year, with a focus on digital trade opportunities for SMEs;
Identified short-term cooperative initiatives to support each country's world-class intellectual property framework, including sharing insight on enforcement approaches, policy tools, and voluntary initiatives for addressing online infringement; and
Entered into an historic Science and Technology agreement, which establishes a foundation for enhanced research partnerships to further world-class science and technological innovation.
Also, the United States and the Organization of American States extended the invitation to the United Kingdom to attend the 10th Americas Competitiveness Exchange (ACE) October 21-28 in California’s Silicon Valley and surrounding areas to explore potential public-private sector partnerships.
Background
Trade between the two countries is already worth over $230 billion a year, the United States is the single biggest source of inward investment into the UK, and together there is over $1.2 trillion invested in each other's economies.


United States Challenges Five WTO Members Imposing Illegal Tariffs Against U.S. Products
07/16/2018
Retaliatory Tariffs Unfairly Target U.S. Products in Myriad Sectors
Washington, DC – The United States today launched separate disputes at the World Trade Organization (WTO) against China, the European Union, Canada, Mexico and Turkey, challenging the tariffs each WTO Member imposed in response to President Trump’s actions on trade in aluminum and steel to protect the United States’ national security interests. 
The U.S. steel and aluminum duties imposed by President Trump earlier this year are justified under international agreements the United States and its trading partners have approved.  However, retaliatory duties on U.S. exports imposed by China, the EU, Canada, Mexico and Turkey are completely without justification under international rules.
“The actions taken by the President are wholly legitimate and fully justified as a matter of U.S. law and international trade rules.  Instead of working with us to address a common problem, some of our trading partners have elected to respond with retaliatory tariffs designed to punish American workers, farmers and companies,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “These tariffs appear to breach each WTO Member’s commitments under the WTO Agreement.  The United States will take all necessary actions to protect our interests, and we urge our trading partners to work constructively with us on the problems created by massive and persistent excess capacity in the steel and aluminum sectors.”
BACKGROUND:
In January 2018, the U.S. Secretary of Commerce issued reports finding that imports of steel and aluminum products threaten to impair our national security.  On March 8, 2018, the President concurred with the Secretary of Commerce’s finding and imposed tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum.  The tariffs became effective for some WTO members on March 23, 2018, and for others on June 1, 2018.  In response, these WTO Members have unfairly retaliated against products originating in the United States. 
China
China’s retaliatory tariffs, effective April 2, 2018, impose 15 to 25 percent additional duties on $3.0 billion in U.S. imports (based on 2017 trade values). 
European Union
The EU’s retaliatory tariffs are effective in two tiers.  The first tier, effective June 22, 2018, imposes 10 to 25 percent additional duties on $3.2 billion in U.S. imports (based on 2017 trade values).  Tier 2 is not effective until June 1, 2021.  In tier 2, the EU will be imposing 10 to 50 percent additional duties on $4.2 billion in U.S. imports (based on 2017 trade values).
Turkey
Turkey’s retaliatory tariffs, effective June 21, 2018, impose 4 to 70 percent additional duties on $1.8 billion in U.S. imports (based on 2017 trade values).  
Canada
Canada’s retaliatory tariffs, effective July 1, 2018, impose 10 to 25 percent duties on $12.7 billion in U.S. imports (based on 2017 trade values).
Mexico
Mexico’s retaliatory tariffs went into effect in two tranches, on June 5, 2018 and July 5, 2018.  In total, Mexico is imposing 7 to 25 percent duties on $3.6 billion in U.S. imports (based on 2017 trade values). 


USTR Announces FY 2019 WTO Tariff-Rate Quota Allocations for Raw Cane Sugar
07/17/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the country-specific in-quota allocations under the tariff-rate quota (TRQ) on imported raw cane sugar for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 (October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019). 
TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On June 29, 2018, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity for raw cane sugar for FY 2019. The in-quota quantity for the TRQ on raw cane sugar for FY 2019 is 1,117,195 metric tons* raw value (MTRV), which is the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement.  The Office of the United State Trade Representative (USTR) is allocating the raw cane sugar TRQ of 1,117,195 MTRV to the following countries in the quantities specified below:                 
Country	FY 2019 Raw Cane Sugar allocations (MTRV)
Argentina	45,281
Australia	87,402
Barbados	7,371
Belize	11,584
Bolivia	8,424
Brazil	152,691
Colombia	25,273
Congo	7,258
Costa Rica	15,796
Cote d’Ivoire	7,258
Dominican Republic	185,335
Ecuador	11,584
El Salvador	27,379
Fiji	9,477
Gabon	7,258
Guatemala	50,546
Guyana	12,636
Haiti	7,258
Honduras	10,530
India	8,424
Jamaica	11,584
Madagascar	7,258
Malawi	10,530
Mauritius	12,636
Mexico	7,258
Mozambique	13,690
Nicaragua	22,114
Panama	30,538
Papua New Guinea	7,258
Paraguay	7,258
Peru	43,175
Philippines	142,160
South Africa	24,220
St. Kitts & Nevis	7,258
Swaziland	16,849
Taiwan	12,636
Thailand	14,743
Trinidad & Tobago	7,371
Uruguay	7,258
Zimbabwe	12,636
 
These allocations are based on each country’s historical shipments to the United States.  The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country to which an allocation is provided.
Raw cane sugar for the FY 2019 TRQ may enter the United States as of October 1, 2018.
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


United States and New Zealand Meet Under Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
07/23/2018
Washington, D.C. – On Friday, July 20, 2018, the United States and New Zealand concluded two days of meetings under the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), noting the strong and growing trade relationship between the two countries and discussing a full range of bilateral issues. 
During the meetings, the United States and New Zealand agreed to a program of expanded cooperation on issues of shared interest, including working together to address trade barriers in third-country markets and exchanging information about unfair trade practices.  The meeting recognized the importance of building on the strong and close ongoing cooperation between the United States and New Zealand at the World Trade Organization, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, and other international organizations.  The United States raised concerns regarding intellectual property and pressed for improvements.
The meetings were led by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish for the United States and Ambassador Tim Groser for New Zealand, with Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Director General Clare Kelly leading a delegation from Wellington for the talks.  The United States delegation included officials from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and State.
Background
Two-way goods trade between the United States and New Zealand totaled $8.1 billion in 2017, with U.S. goods exports to New Zealand totaling $3.9 billion and imports totaling $4.2 billion.  The United States had a $237 million goods trade deficit with New Zealand in 2017.  U.S. services exports to New Zealand totaled $2.5 billion in 2016 (latest available data), while services imports from New Zealand amounted to $2.2 billion in 2016 (latest available data).  The United States had a $315 million services trade surplus with New Zealand in 2016.



Public Hearings on the Proposed Section 301 Tariff List
07/23/2018
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold public hearings from July 24-25, 2018 regarding proposed tariffs on approximately $16 billion worth of Chinese products.
The hearings will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The proposed tariffs are part of the U.S. response to China’s unfair trade practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation based on the findings in USTR’s investigation of China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. Of the tariffs authorized for $50 billion of Chinese products, tariffs on $34 billion are currently in effect and tariffs on the remaining $16 billion are the subject of the public hearing.
The Federal Register notice publishing the proposed tariff list and soliciting public comment can be viewed here.
The public hearings will be held at the following times:
Tuesday, July 24, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 5:30 PM EDT
Wednesday, July 25, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 12:00 PM EDT


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on Agriculture Assistance Against Illegal Trade Retaliation
07/24/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding the President’s decision for the U.S. Department of Agriculture to assist farmers and ranchers affected by illegal retaliation on trade by other countries:
“President Trump is taking strong action, as he promised, to make sure America’s farmers and ranchers are not left to bear the brunt of illegal retaliation by China and other countries. The Trump Administration will continue to defend our economy from unfair trading practices and work to advance free, fair and reciprocal trade relationships.”












           

Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer to the Senate Committee on Appropriations
07/26/2018
HEARING ON THE PRESIDENT’S FISCAL YEAR 2019 BUDGET REQUEST AND TRADE AGENDA
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Washington, DC
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:
Thank you, Chairman Moran, Ranking Member Shaheen and Members of the Subcommittee.
It has been 14 months since I was confirmed as the United States Trade Representative. It has been a very busy year for our agency. I would like to take you through a few of the highlights.
We have been renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at an unprecedented speed. This would be the first comprehensive renegotiation of a U.S. trade agreement.  As part of this process, we have consulted extensively with Congress as required by TPA. Hopefully, we are in the finishing stages of achieving an agreement in principle that will benefit American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses. 
We are finalizing revisions to the U.S. – Korea Free Trade Agreement.  We arrived at an agreement with the Koreans to strengthen domestic truck manufacturing here in the United States, allow more U.S. vehicles to enter the Korean market without burdensome regulations, and fix a whole host of implementation issues related to agricultural, pharmaceutical products, and many other products.
We are actively engaging in efforts to commence new trade agreements, including the newly-announced EU initiative from yesterday.  After the confirmation of my Deputies in mid-March of this year, I instructed Ambassadors Mahoney and Gerrish to consult with Congress and to work with their foreign counterparts to find future partners for future agreements. We are speaking with a number of countries in Southeast Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, and I’ll be happy to talk about that further if you are interested.
We have taken action on two 201 investigations, one on solar products and the other on washing machines.  These are the first 201 investigations since 2001.  Both cases involved a tremendous amount of work reviewing facts. Each resulted in an affirmative ITC recommendation, with the President largely accepting the recommendations of the International Trade Commission.  And we have seen success in domestic manufacturing as a result of those actions.
At the direction of the President, USTR has been leading the Section 301 efforts to combat unfair Chinese intellectual property practices.  In March of this year, we published our report and identified several major problems, including forced technology transfer, non-economic licensing practices, state-funded strategic acquisition of U.S. technology, and cybertheft.  In response to the Chinese actions, the President directed the implementation of several measures, including a WTO case which we brought, targeted tariffs, strengthened export controls, and rigorously addressing state-directed investment in critical technologies. 
We are also pursuing and defending numerous actions at the World Trade Organization.  We are actively litigating 10 offensive disputes, defending 21 disputes, and participating as a third party in another 20 cases. 
In addition to these major initiatives, USTR runs a host of other programs and deals with many trade issues on a day-to-day basis.  We operate the Generalized System of Preferences program and the African Growth and Opportunity Act program. We monitor our many trade agreements we have in place. We prepare and publish numerous reports on trade. We lead the interagency process for developing trade policy. And we work on a daily basis with our foreign counterparts to reduce barriers to U.S. trade around the world. 
Finally, I would like to touch on the budget of USTR. In FY 2017, we were appropriated $62 million with an option of deriving funds from a trust fund that was set up in 2015.  Our appropriation for FY 2018 was $57.6 million plus $15 million from the Trade Enforcement Trust Fund. We are certainly grateful for the added appropriation, and we are focused on making the best use possible of it. For the fiscal year 2019 President’s Budget, USTR requested $63 million to support staffing increases and focus on priority areas. 
I thank the Members of the Subcommittee for their time today, and look forward to answering your questions and discussing the President’s trade agenda.


President Donald J. Trump Upholds AGOA Trade Preference Eligibility Criteria with Rwanda
07/30/2018
Washington, D.C. – Today, President Donald J. Trump issued a proclamation regarding Rwanda that enforces the eligibility criteria established by Congress for trade preferences under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).  This proclamation suspends the application of duty-free treatment for all apparel products from Rwanda.  
“We regret this outcome and hope it is temporary,” said Deputy United States Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney. “But if the AGOA eligibility criteria are to have any meaning, they have to be enforced—particularly where, as here, other AGOA members took action in order remain in compliance.  The President’s action today is measured and proportional.  It suspends AGOA benefits for a class of imports that totaled $1.5 million in 2017, which accounts for approximately only 3% of Rwanda’s total exports to the United States.  Rwanda remains eligible to receive non-apparel benefits available under AGOA, and the President’s action does not affect the vast majority of Rwanda’s exports to the United States.  We look forward to working with Rwanda to resolve this issue so that benefits in the apparel sector may be restored.”
When Congress first passed AGOA in 2000, it imposed certain eligibility criteria to encourage recipient countries to adopt free market-oriented development models and to ensure fair market access for United States firms.  The AGOA eligibility requirements include: “making continual progress toward establishing . . . a market-based economy . . . [and] the elimination of barriers to United States trade and investment.”  19 U.S.C. 3703(1)(A),(C).  The United States Trade Representative (USTR) is charged with enforcing AGOA’s requirements.
An AGOA issue relating to new barriers to United States trade and investment first arose in 2015 when the East African Community (EAC) established a plan to ban imports of used clothing and footwear.  The USTR’s engagement on this issue intensified in 2016 when the EAC announced it would phase in the ban by 2019.  Thereafter, three EAC AGOA beneficiaries—Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda—worked with the United States and took actions to revise their policies.  As a result, they continue to receive full benefits under AGOA.  Unfortunately, Rwanda has insisted on keeping in place a policy that has raised tariffs on imports of used apparel and footwear by more than one thousand percent, effectively banning imports of these products.
United States efforts over the past two years to address this issue with the Government of Rwanda have been unsuccessful.  As a result, on March 29, 2018, the President determined that Rwanda was not making sufficient progress toward the elimination of barriers to United States trade and investment and was, therefore, out of compliance with AGOA’s eligibility requirements.  The President informed the Government of Rwanda of his decision in March, giving Rwanda an additional 60 days to engage with the United States to resolve this problem before the suspension of its apparel benefits under AGOA.  Rwanda has, however, continued to insist on retaining its tariffs.  The President, therefore, has decided to suspend Rwanda’s duty-free access to the United States for apparel products until Rwanda comes back into compliance with AGOA’s eligibility requirements.
The President believes suspension of AGOA’s benefits, instead of termination of Rwanda’s status as an AGOA beneficiary, is the appropriate remedy in this instance.  The Administration supports continued engagement with the aim of restoring market access for used apparel and bringing Rwanda into compliance with AGOA’s eligibility requirements.  The President can reinstate full AGOA benefits for Rwanda once he has determined that Rwanda is meeting the eligibility criteria laid out by Congress.
Background
On March 21, 2017, the Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association (SMART) submitted a petition asserting that the EAC’s 2016 decision to phase in a ban on imports of used clothing and footwear imposes significant economic hardship on the United States used clothing industry and is inconsistent with the AGOA beneficiary criteria for countries to establish a market-based economy and eliminate barriers to United States trade and investment.  The petition requested an out-of-cycle review to determine whether Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda – the AGOA-eligible members of the EAC – are meeting AGOA’s eligibility criteria.  In its petition, SMART estimated that 40,000 United States jobs related to the collection, processing, and distribution of used clothing and footwear would be negatively affected by the ban.  SMART also asserted that the ban would negatively affect tens of thousands of jobs in the secondhand clothing sectors in EAC countries.
The USTR accepted the SMART petition and initiated an out-of-cycle review of Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda’s AGOA eligibility on June 20, 2017.  A public hearing was held on July 13, 2017, in Washington D.C., at which officials from Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, and the EAC Secretariat testified.  The USTR determined that an out-of-cycle review of Kenya’s AGOA eligibility was not warranted due to the government’s commitment to reverse the tariff back to pre-2016 levels, effective July 1, 2017, and a commitment not to ban imports of used clothing through other policy measures.  Tanzania and Uganda made similar commitments during the course of the out-of-cycle review. 
On March 29, 2018, the President determined that Rwanda was not making sufficient progress toward the elimination of barriers to United States trade and investment, and therefore was out of compliance with AGOA’s eligibility requirements.  In particular, Rwanda continued to impose prohibitive tariff rates on imports of used apparel and footwear and indicated its intent to continue to phase in a ban of these products.  As a result, the President notified Congress and the Government of Rwanda of his intent to suspend duty-free treatment for all AGOA-eligible apparel products from Rwanda after 60 days.
In order to qualify for AGOA trade benefits, partner countries must meet certain statutory eligibility requirements, including making continual progress toward establishing market-based economies, the rule of law, political pluralism, and elimination of barriers to United States trade and investment.


Statement By U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Section 301 Action
08/01/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding further action under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974:
“On June 18, the President directed me to identify $200 billion worth of Chinese goods for additional tariffs at a rate of 10 percent, in response to China’s decision to cause further harm to U.S. workers, farmers, and businesses by imposing retaliatory duties on U.S. goods.  I initiated this process on July 10. 
“This week, the President has directed that I consider increasing the proposed level of the additional duty from 10 percent to 25 percent.  The 25 percent duty would be applied to the proposed list of products previously announced on July 10. 
“The Trump Administration continues to urge China to stop its unfair practices, open its market, and engage in true market competition.  We have been very clear about the specific changes China should undertake.  Regrettably, instead of changing its harmful behavior, China has illegally retaliated against U.S. workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.
“The increase in the possible rate of the additional duty is intended to provide the Administration with additional options to encourage China to change its harmful policies and behavior and adopt policies that will lead to fairer markets and prosperity for all of our citizens.
“The United States has joined forces with like-minded partners around the world to address unfair trade practices such as forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft, and we remain ready to engage with China in negotiations that could resolve these and other problems detailed in our Section 301 report.”
Interested parties may address this possible increase in the level of the additional duty in their comments on the proposed action.  The proposed list and process for the public notice and comment period is set out in the Federal Register notice issued on July 10 and published in the Federal Register on July 17.  To view the July 17 notice, including the list of proposed products to be subject to additional duties, click here.  In light of the possible increase of the additional duty rate to 25 percent, the close of the written comment period is extended from August 30 to September 6, and the due date for requests to appear at the public hearing is extended to August 13.  These modifications to the comment period will be set out in a notice to be published shortly in the Federal Register. 


The United States and Colombia Meet to Review Implementation of the United States - Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement
08/03/2018
Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, August 2, 2018, officials from the United States and Colombia held the second meeting of the United States – Colombia Free Trade Commission (the “Commission” or the “FTC”).  The Commission is responsible for overseeing implementation and further elaboration of the United States – Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement (the “Agreement” or the CTPA).
At this second FTC meeting, the officials reviewed the trade and economic impact of the Agreement on both countries since the previous Commission meeting held in November 2012, in Washington, D.C.  Both sides noted that the bilateral trade relationship has continued to strengthen during the six years the Agreement has been in force, that both sides have worked together constructively to resolve issues when they arise, and that implementation is proceeding well and smoothly.
Officials underscored the importance of ensuring the effective implementation of the Agreement in both countries, and the key role the Agreement plays in facilitating sustainable, broad-based economic growth and as an important catalyst in facilitating competiveness. Officials also agreed to continue to work together to ensure effective implementation of, and compliance with, the trade in goods and services, customs, intellectual property rights, labor, and environment obligations of the Agreement.
A discussion of bilateral issues of concern included Intellectual Property, digital trade and telecommunications, services, agriculture-related issues, textile and apparel concerns, truck scrappage, and how better use can be made of the CTPA by certain sectors. 
The two governments reviewed the important ongoing engagement on labor issues, an area in which the Colombian government has made progress addressing the issues identified in the 2017 Public Report of Review of U.S. Submission 2016-02 (Colombia).  Officials noted that work remains and that both sides will continue to work together on the pending issues identified in the 2017 Report.
Both sides recognized the importance of transparency and maintaining communication with stakeholders. Further, the countries committed to continue to promote an open dialogue and use mechanisms for receiving meaningful public comment, as part of a commitment to public engagement.
The United States looks forward to continuing a constructive and open engagement with Colombia to implement the CTPA to the benefit of both countries under the administration of incoming President Iván Duque.
The meeting was led by Ambassador C.J. Mahoney, Deputy United States Trade Representative, for the United States and Vice Minister Olga Lucía Lozano, of the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism, for Colombia.
USTR Announces New GSP Eligibility Review of Turkey
08/03/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative announced today that it is reviewing the eligibility of Turkey to participate in the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP market access criterion. 
This criterion, one of fifteen defined by Congress in the statute authorizing the GSP program, covers the extent to which beneficiary countries have assured the United States reasonable and equitable access to their markets. 
“The Trump Administration has concerns with Turkey’s compliance with GSP’s market access criterion,” said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish.  “We hope that Turkey will work with us to address the concerns that led to this new review of their duty-free access to the United States.”
Turkey has imposed additional tariffs on $1.78 billion of U.S. imports only and not to other trading partners. USTR is launching a self-initiated GSP eligibility review of Turkey based on concerns related to its compliance with the GSP market access criterion.
The United States imported $1.66 billion in 2017 from Turkey under the GSP program, representing 17.7 percent of total U.S. imports from Turkey.  The leading GSP import categories were vehicles and vehicle parts, jewelry and precious metals, and stone articles.
A public hearing and comment period for Turkey’s GSP eligibility review will be announced in an upcoming Federal Register notice.
Background
The GSP program is the largest and oldest U.S. trade preference program and is designed to promote economic development in developing countries by allowing duty-free entry for several thousand categories of products, as defined by the U.S. Harmonized Tariff Schedule, from designated beneficiary countries.


U.S. Poultry Gains New Market Access in Morocco
08/07/2018
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced today that the government of Morocco has agreed to allow commercial imports of U.S. poultry meat and products into Morocco for the first time.
“The Trump Administration continues to prioritize the opening of new markets for U.S. agricultural products.  This new access to the Moroccan market is an important step in ensuring that American farmers and ranchers can continue to expand their exports,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “I welcome Morocco’s agreement to allow imports of U.S. poultry meat and products and the economic opportunities that will be afforded to U.S. producers.”
“Opening new markets for American poultry and other agricultural products is a top priority. I am convinced that when the Moroccan people get a taste of U.S. poultry, they're going to want more of it,” said Secretary Perdue. “The products that will be imported into Morocco are safe, wholesome, and very delicious. This is also a good harbinger of the kind of relationship that can be developed. We hope there are other things we can cooperate on as USDA works to expand markets around the globe.”
The United States is the world’s second largest poultry exporter, with global sales of poultry meat and products of $4.3 billion last year.  In May 2018, U.S. exports of agricultural products exceeded $12 billion (latest data available). Initial estimates indicate that Morocco would be a $10 million market, with additional growth over time.  Morocco had prohibited imports of U.S. poultry.  Officials from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and the U.S. Department of Agriculture worked with the Moroccan government to provide assurances on the safety of U.S. poultry. 
More details on requirements for exporting to Morocco are available from the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service Export Library at:  https://www.fsis.usda.gov/wps/portal/fsis/topics/international-affairs/exporting-products/export-library-requirements-by-country/Morocco.


USTR Finalizes Second Tranche of Tariffs on Chinese Products in Response to China’s Unfair Trade Practices
08/07/2018
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released a list of approximately $16 billion worth of imports from China that will be subject to a 25 percent additional tariff as part of the U.S. response to China’s unfair trade practices related to the forced transfer of American technology and intellectual property.  This second tranche of additional tariffs under Section 301 follows the first tranche of tariffs on approximately $34 billion of imports from China, which went into effect on July 6.  
The list contains 279 of the original 284 tariff lines that were on a proposed list announced on June 15.  Changes to the proposed list were made after USTR and the interagency Section 301 Committee sought and received written comments and testimony during a two-day public hearing last month. Customs and Border Protection will begin to collect the additional duties on the Chinese imports on August 23. 
In March 2018, USTR released the findings of its exhaustive Section 301 investigation that found China’s acts, policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property and innovation are unreasonable and discriminatory and burden U.S. commerce.
Specifically, the Section 301 investigation revealed:
China uses joint venture requirements, foreign investment restrictions, and administrative review and licensing processes to require or pressure technology transfer from U.S. companies.
China deprives U.S. companies of the ability to set market-based terms in licensing and other technology-related negotiations.
China directs and unfairly facilitates the systematic investment in, and acquisition of, U.S. companies and assets to generate large-scale technology transfer.
China conducts and supports cyber intrusions into U.S. commercial computer networks to gain unauthorized access to commercially valuable business information.
A formal notice of the $16 billion tariff action will be published shortly in the Federal Register.  As in the case of the first tranche of additional tariffs, the notice will announce a process by which interested persons may request the exclusion of particular products covered by a tariff line subject to the additional duties. 


Public Hearings on Proposed Section 301 Tariff List
08/17/2018
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold public hearings from August 20 to August 24, 2018, and the following week, on August 27, 2018, regarding proposed tariffs on approximately $200 billion worth of Chinese products.
The hearings will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The proposed tariffs are a supplemental action in response to China’s unfair trade practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation, based on the findings in USTR’s investigation of China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. Tariffs on $34 billion in goods from China are currently in effect, and tariffs on an additional $16 billion will take effect on August 23, 2018.
The Federal Register notice publishing the proposed tariff list and soliciting public comment can be viewed here.
The public hearings will be held at the following times: 
Monday, August 20, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Tuesday, August 21, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Wednesday, August 22, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Thursday, August 23, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Friday, August 24, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Monday, August 27, 2018 from 9:30 AM – 4:00 PM EDT


Joint Release By USTR Robert Lighthizer And Kenyan Cabinet Secretary For Industry, Trade And Cooperatives, Peter Munya
08/27/2018
Washington, D.C. – The U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Kenyan Cabinet Secretary for Industry, Trade and Cooperatives, Peter Munya (represented by Trade Principal Secretary Dr. Chris Kiptoo in Washington, DC) today announced the establishment of a U.S.-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group to explore ways to deepen the trade and investment ties between the two countries.
Earlier in the day, President Trump met with President Uhuru Kenyatta to discuss the strong bilateral relationship between the United States and Kenya. Under the economic dialogue announced by the Presidents, the U.S.-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group will support comprehensive trade policies and begin to lay the groundwork for a stronger future trade relationship. 
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said:
“It has been a pleasure to welcome the Kenyan delegation to the United States as we meet to build a stronger bilateral trade and investment relationship between our two countries. Under the Trade and Investment Working Group, our two countries will work together to explore a mutually beneficial trade and investment framework to guide our relationship moving forward, including by maximizing the remaining years of AGOA and looking ahead to the next steps.” 
Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said:
“Although AGOA preferences scheme has led to increased Kenyan exports since 2000, its utilization has been suboptimal.  Through implementation of the recently launched National AGOA strategy and action plan, Kenya seeks greater US support in order to optimize available opportunities in the remaining seven years of AGOA.  Under the Trade and Investment Working Group, we look forward to exploring ways to deepen trade and investment ties between Kenya and the United States.”
Background:
Trade between the two countries stands at about $1.0 billion a year.  Over 70 percent ($407 million in 2017) of Kenya’s exports to the United States entered under AGOA.


USTR Statement on Trade Negotiations with Mexico and Canada
08/31/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement regarding the status of trade negotiations with Mexico and Canada:
“Today the President notified the Congress of his intent to sign a trade agreement with Mexico – and Canada, if it is willing – 90 days from now.  The agreement is the most advanced and high-standard trade agreement in the world.  Over the next few weeks, Congress and cleared advisors from civil society and the private sector will be able to examine the agreement.  They will find it has huge benefits for our workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.
“We have also been negotiating with Canada throughout this year-long process.  This week those meetings continued at all levels.  The talks were constructive, and we made progress.  Our officials are continuing to work toward agreement.  The USTR team will meet with Minister Freeland and her colleagues Wednesday of next week.”


Statement on Meetings Between the United States and Japan to Advance the Bilateral Trade Relationship
08/10/2018
Washington, DC -- Japanese Minister for Economic Revitalization Toshimitsu Motegi and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer had constructive discussions yesterday and today.  The United States and Japan had this round of ministerial consultations with the recognition of the importance of expanding bilateral trade between the two countries in a mutually beneficial way in order to achieve free and open economic development.  Both sides also agreed to deepen U.S.-Japan cooperation in various international economic issues.
Both sides, through the consultations for two days, had frank discussions on both countries’ interests and views on trade and investment expressed so far, and deepened the understanding on their respective basic views and positions.
Based on these discussions, both sides agreed to explore ways to fill the gap between their positions and to promote trade between the United States and Japan, and to expand areas of cooperation based on common understanding.
The United States and Japan also agreed to continue the consultations based on mutual trust and to further deepen the discussions in the next round of the ministerial consultations to be held sometime in September.


USTR Publishes Agreed Outcomes from US-Korea FTA Amendment and Modification Negotiations
09/03/2018
Washington, DC – Today, the Office of the United States Trade Representative and Korea’s Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy published the agreed outcomes of the negotiations to amend and modify the U.S.-Korea (KORUS) Free Trade Agreement.  These outcomes include amendments and modifications to KORUS as well as additional agreements and understandings to improve implementation of the trade pact.
The publication of the text of the agreed outcomes follows the completion in mid-August of U.S. domestic consultation procedures.  Korea will now initiate the next step in its own domestic procedures, which is to open for public comment the provisional Korean translations of the outcomes to amend the KORUS Agreement.  Once complete and translations are certified by both governments, the documents may then be finalized for signature, to be followed by further procedures in both countries as needed to bring the outcomes into force.


Joint Media Statement on the AEM-USTR Consultations
09/01/2018
1. Consultations between the ten ASEAN Economic Ministers (AEM) and the United States Trade Representative (“the Ministers”) were held on 1 September 2018 in Singapore. The Consultations were co-chaired by H.E. Chan Chun Sing, Minister for Trade and Industry, Singapore and H.E. Jeffrey Gerrish, Deputy United States Trade Representative (USTR) for Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Industrial Competitiveness (representing H.E. Robert Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative).
2. Improving global economic conditions and the strong economic growth of both ASEAN and the United States in 2017 saw total merchandise trade between ASEAN and the U.S. expanding by a robust 10 per cent to USD 233.1 billion. This amount accounted for 9.1 per cent of ASEAN’s total trade, making the United States the third largest trading partner of ASEAN, while ASEAN is the fourth largest trading partner of the United States. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) flows from the United States to ASEAN amounted to USD 5.4 billion in 2017, putting the United States as ASEAN’s fourth largest external source of FDI.
3. The Ministers welcomed the progress in the implementation of the 2017-2018 ASEAN-U.S. Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement (TIFA) and the Expanded Economic Engagement (E3) Initiatives Work Plan. Particularly, the Ministers were pleased to note the concrete progress in the ASEAN Single Window and Trade Facilitation initiatives under the support of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)’s US-ASEAN Connectivity through Trade and Investment (US-ACTI) programme and urged the development to further enhance trade and investment ties between the United States and ASEAN. The Ministers welcomed the addition of agricultural biotechnology regulatory cooperation to the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 Work Plans. The Ministers also noted the proposed areas of cooperation put forward in 2018 on automotive standards and electronic payment services and have tasked the senior economic officials to monitor the progress of discussions by the relevant sectoral bodies.
4. The Ministers noted the progress in the implementation of the U.S.-ASEAN Connect initiative through the four areas of energy, innovation, policy and business. In particular, the Ministers welcomed the launch of the U.S.-ASEAN Internship programme in June 2018 by the US-ASEAN Connect and the US-ASEAN Business Council (USABC) which provides internship opportunities in US companies based in six ASEAN countries. The Ministers also looked forward to the expansion of the internship programme to companies based in the US, as well as US companies operating outside the ASEAN region.
5. The Ministers expressed appreciation to the US for its new technical assistance programme for ASEAN, namely the ASEAN-USAID Inclusive Growth in ASEAN through Innovation, Trade, and E-Commerce (IGNITE). The programme will replace the current ACTI programme, which had supported ASEAN in the areas of ASEAN Single Window, Trade Facilitation, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) development, as well as Information and Communication Technology (ICT) development.
6. The Ministers expressed appreciation to the USABC for its work and encouraged continued private sector feedback in promoting stronger business and trade ties between the US and ASEAN business communities.


USTR Statement on US-EU Trade Meeting
09/10/2018
 Brussels, Belgium – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released the following statement after the meeting today of U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and European Union Commissioner for Trade Cecilia Malmström:
Ambassador Lighthizer had a constructive meeting with Commissioner Malmström to initiate the Executive Working Group to improve trade relations between the United States and the European Union.  The Ministers addressed each of the topics in the Joint Statement issued by President Trump and President Juncker on July 25.
The Ministers will meet again at the end of the month to continue talks.  In October, professional staff will hold further discussions on identifying and reducing tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade.  Ministers will then meet in November to finalize outcomes in a number of areas.  Specifically, we hope for an early harvest in the area of technical barriers to trade.  We look forward to each party pursuing their domestic processes for negotiating mandates.  USTR will begin consultations with Congress pursuant to Trade Promotion Authority to facilitate negotiations on longer-term outcomes.


Deputy USTR Gerrish Statement on US-UK Trade Meeting
09/11/2018
London, England – Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish released the following statement regarding his meeting today with UK Minister of State for Trade Policy George Hollingbery:
“It was a pleasure meeting with Minister George Hollingbery today at the UK’s Department for International Trade.  We had a productive meeting, discussing a range of U.S.-UK trade issues. 
“The U.S.-UK trade and investment relationship is already substantial.  We have two-way trade in goods and services of over $230 billion annually, with each of us being the other’s largest single supplier of services and a top supplier of goods.  We are also both each other’s largest source of foreign investment with nearly $1.3 trillion invested in each other’s economies.  
“Of course, we hope to further deepen and expand this beneficial relationship – both now and following Brexit. 
“We reviewed the progress made so far through our U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group, which has met four times since it was established by U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and UK Secretary of State Liam Fox last year. In November, the United States will host the UK delegation in Washington for the fifth meeting of the Working Group, as well as host the third meeting of the U.S.-UK Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) Dialogue in New York.  
“We also discussed our broader trade relationship, including on-going discussions with the EU on reducing barriers to U.S.-EU trade and addressing the challenges faced by both our economies due to non-market-oriented policies and unfair trade practices of third countries.”


Opening Statement of Ambassador Gregory F. Doud Before the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry
09/13/2018
Chairman Roberts, Ranking Member Stabenow, and all Members of the Committee. Thank you for the opportunity to join my colleagues from the Department of Agriculture this morning in testifying on the Administration’s agricultural trade policy agenda on behalf of President Trump and Ambassador Lighthizer.
It is impossible to testify today without first mentioning the renegotiation of NAFTA and the benefits for U.S. agriculture. We are working diligently to bring a successful closure to NAFTA that fulfills our Trade Promotion Authority requirements.
We have recently reached an agreement with Mexico that improves on NAFTA in almost every way. On agriculture, it maintains our farmers’ and ranchers’ tariff-free access to the Mexican market and modernizes the agreement in important ways that will cut red tape on our southern border. Currently, Ambassador Lighthizer and my colleagues at USTR are working to improve our agricultural situation with Canada, particularly in the areas of dairy, poultry, eggs, grain, wine, and other products.
When I first testified at the Senate Finance committee during my confirmation process, I discussed how, in terms of U.S. agricultural, we play offense. Since the confirmation of my fellow Deputies and myself, we are undergoing thorough analyses of future FTA partners.
We are looking into the benefits of potential partners in Southeast Asia and Africa. And I look forward to working with Congress through the TPA process as these considerations evolve.
Increasingly, our dialogue with Japan continues to be a priority for us at USTR. A high-level delegation of Japanese officials came to USTR last month to discuss ways to expand and improve our bilateral trade.
These discussions are continuing, and we fully recognize the importance to U.S. agriculture of expanding market access into Japan. We are determined to put our producers and agribusinesses on a level playing field with other countries, such as Australia, Canada, and the European Union.
In July, President Trump and European Commission President Juncker launched an initiative to promote more free, fair, and reciprocal trade. We understand that there are many sensitivities surrounding agricultural trade, but including agriculture in any negotiations with the EU remains a priority for this Administration. Currently, the United States runs an agricultural trade deficit of over $15 billion with the EU; which is partly indicative of the scope of market access issues and non-tariff barriers for U.S. agriculture into the EU.
In May, I traveled to Geneva to deliver the United States’ first ever counter notification to the WTO’s Committee on Agriculture concerning India’s market price support for rice and wheat. Every rice- and wheat-producing country around the world should be concerned about the trade effects of India’s trade distorting domestic support.
At the WTO, we are pushing forward the largest agricultural disputes in history against China for its market price support policies and unfair administration of its tariff rate quotas. We estimate that China has exceeded its de minimis levels of domestic support for rice, wheat and corn by some $100 billion. We also estimate that if China had administered its TRQs for rice, wheat and corn according to its WTO commitments, they would have imported billions more in rice, wheat, and corn from all sources. We currently have seven offensive WTO disputes exclusively for U.S. agriculture and six more on retaliatory duties by our trading partners on agriculture and other products.
Under Section 301 of the ’74 Trade Act, USTR launched an investigation into China’s unfair technology transfer regime. In response, USTR implemented tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports, while another $200 billion is under active consideration. These tariffs are intended to address longstanding unfair and discriminatory Chinese trade and investment practices with respect to intellectual property and to encourage China to eliminate its harmful behavior and adopt policies that will lead to fairer markets for all citizens.
The correct response would be for China to change its unfair and discriminatory IP practices and until then, the President is committed to having the backs of our farmers and ranchers by working to address the damage inflicted by China’s unjustified retaliatory actions.
Finally, I am disappointed that in recent months our trading partners have decided to retaliate against nearly $30 billion of our $143 billion in agricultural exports following necessary actions taken under our trade laws to defend our national security or to respond to unfair trade practices. We are taking action at the WTO to counter this unjustified retaliation.
I often tell people that the easy issues in agricultural were resolved a long time ago. For example, earlier this year USTR and USDA announced access for U.S. pork to Argentina, and poultry to Morocco. These were long-standing issues. Under Secretary McKinney and I will continue to work closely together to coordinate our effort to expand upon our $143 billion in ag exports, and I thank this Members of the Committee for their time today and look forward to answering your questions.


USTR and Bangladesh Hold 4th Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum Agreement Council Meeting
09/14/2018
Washington, DC  – The United States-Bangladesh Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum Agreement (TICFA) Council held its fourth meeting on September 13, 2018 in Washington, DC to promote expanded bilateral trade and investment in goods and services. The meeting was co-chaired by Mark Linscott, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for South and Central Asian Affairs and Shubhashish Bose, Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Government of Bangladesh.
During the meeting, the United States and Bangladesh exchanged views on issues of mutual interest covered under the TICFA.  The discussions focused on market access for U.S. cotton, enabling a digital economy, transparency in government procurement, and labor reforms in Bangladesh.
Both governments pledged their commitment to deepen their engagement and grow their trade and economic ties.  The United States particularly noted its concerns on overall labor reform and expressed its hope for ongoing collaboration with the private sector on worker safety.  Bangladesh was suspended from the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program in 2013 as a result of concerns on workers’ rights and safety.
Bangladesh and the United States had $7.2 billion (two-way) goods trade during 2017. 


USTR Finalizes Tariffs on $200 Billion of Chinese Imports in Response to China’s Unfair Trade Practices
09/18/2018
Washington, DC – As part of the United States’ continuing response to China’s theft of American intellectual property and forced transfer of American technology, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released a list of approximately $200 billion worth of Chinese imports that will be subject to additional tariffs.  In accordance with the direction of President Trump, the additional tariffs will be effective starting September 24, 2018, and initially will be in the amount of 10 percent.  Starting January 1, 2019, the level of the additional tariffs will increase to 25 percent. 
The list contains 5,745 full or partial lines of the original 6,031 tariff lines that were on a proposed list of Chinese imports announced on July 10, 2018.  Changes to the proposed list were made after USTR and the interagency Section 301 Committee sought and received comments over a six-week period and testimony during a six-day public hearing in August.  USTR engaged in a thorough process to rigorously examine the comments and testimony and, as a result, determined to fully or partially remove 297 tariff lines from the original proposed list.  Included among the products removed from the proposed list are certain consumer electronics products such as smart watches and Bluetooth devices; certain chemical inputs for manufactured goods, textiles and agriculture; certain health and safety products such as bicycle helmets, and child safety furniture such as car seats and playpens. 
In March 2018, USTR released the findings of its exhaustive Section 301 investigation that found China’s acts, policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property and innovation are unreasonable and discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
Specifically, the Section 301 investigation revealed:
China uses joint venture requirements, foreign investment restrictions, and administrative review and licensing processes to require or pressure technology transfer from U.S. companies.
China deprives U.S. companies of the ability to set market-based terms in licensing and other technology-related negotiations.
China directs and unfairly facilitates the systematic investment in, and acquisition of, U.S. companies and assets to generate large-scale technology transfer.
China conducts and supports cyber intrusions into U.S. commercial computer networks to gain unauthorized access to commercially valuable business information.
After separate notice and comment proceedings, in June and August USTR released two lists of Chinese imports, with a combined annual trade value of approximately $50 billion, with the goal of obtaining the elimination of China’s harmful acts, policies and practices.  Unfortunately, China has been unwilling to change its policies involving the unfair acquisition of U.S. technology and intellectual property.  Instead, China responded to the United States’ tariff action by taking further steps to harm U.S. workers and businesses.  In these circumstances, the President has directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase the level of trade covered by the additional duties in order to obtain elimination of China’s unfair policies.  The Administration will continue to encourage China to allow for fair trade with the United States.
A formal notice of the $200 billion tariff action will be published shortly in the Federal Register. 


U.S. Timber Committee Responds to Peru's Timber Verification
09/19/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative, on behalf of the United States Timber Committee, today issued a statement reviewing the overall findings of the Government of Peru’s verification report regarding three timber shipments from Peru to the United States, and reiterating areas for additional work by Peru.  Peru conducted the timber verification in response to a February 2018 request made by the Timber Committee under the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA). The timber verification provision serves as an important monitoring tool to assess the application of Peruvian forestry laws throughout the timber supply chain. 
“I am committed to using the tools available under our trade agreements to ensure that U.S. businesses and workers can compete on a level playing field,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer  “The result of this verification underscores that there is more work to do in order to stop illegal logging in Peru and to safeguard the legality of timber products entering the United States market.  We look forward to continuing to work with Peru to stop illegal logging and the destruction of the Amazon.”
The PTPA contains a landmark Environment Chapter and Forest Annex, which includes a requirement for Peru to conduct audits and verifications of particular timber producers and exporters upon request from the United States and provides for the United States’ participation in the verification process.  While the verification process highlighted progress that Peru has made over the years to address illegal logging, it also confirmed the challenges that remain to ensuring legality throughout the timber supply chain. The United States Government continues to engage the Government of Peru, as well as non-governmental organizations and private sector businesses involved in bilateral timber trade, to address the remaining challenges. The two governments will hold meetings of the Free Trade Commission and the Timber Sub-Committee and Environmental Affairs Council in the coming months.


USTR Statement on Meeting of the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity
09/20/2018
Paris, France – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released the following statement at the close of the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity ministerial meeting held in Paris, France today.  Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish led the U.S. delegation at the Forum.  The Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity was established in December 2016 pursuant to G20 Leaders’ call for the formation of a forum to address excess capacity in the global steel sector.
“The United States thanks Argentina for its chairmanship of the Global Forum and for its efforts to achieve meaningful outcomes from the Forum process this year.  The United States has been an active and committed partner in this process, working to seek prompt implementation of the Forum’s past policy recommendations, which are aimed at reducing excess capacity as well as restoring balance and market function in the global steel sector.
“Unfortunately, what we have seen to date leaves us questioning whether the Forum is capable of delivering on these objectives.  We do not see an equal commitment to the process from all Forum members.  Commitments to provide timely information critical to the proper functioning of the Forum’s work, for example, have gone unfulfilled.  More importantly, we have yet to see any concrete progress toward true market-based reform in the economies that have contributed most to the crisis of excess capacity in the steel sector.
“A report was issued today that illustrates the struggles and limitations of the Forum process to date.  Like in years past, the report underscores the urgency of the problem of excess capacity and makes recommendations about how to address it.  But the report will do nothing to solve the fundamental causes of the problem.  This will happen only when those that have created this problem act to remove subsidies and other measures that distort markets and create serious global imbalances, and take action to eliminate excess capacity.
“The United States remains fully engaged in solving this problem and is willing to work with like-minded partners to find solutions to the continuing crisis of global excess capacity in the steel sector.  However, we will not sit idly by while the effects of this crisis imperil our companies and workers and threaten to impair our essential security interests.”


USTR Announces FY 2019 WTO Tariff-Rate Quota Allocations for Refined and Specialty Sugar and Sugar-Containing Products
09/24/2018
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the first-come, first-served in-quota allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 (October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019).  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On June 29, 2018, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity for the FY 2019 refined sugar TRQ at 192,000 Metric Tons Raw Value (MTRV), for which the sucrose content, by weight in the dry state, must have a polarimeter reading of 99.5 degrees or more.  This amount includes the minimum quantity to which the United States is committed under the WTO Agreement—22,000 MTRV, of which 1,656 MTRV is reserved for specialty sugar—and an additional 170,000 MTRV for specialty sugars.  USTR is allocating 10,300 MTRV of refined sugar to Canada, 2,954 to Mexico, and 7,090 MTRV of refined sugar to be administered on a first-come, first-served basis.
Imports of all specialty sugar will be administered on a first-come, first-served basis in five tranches.  USDA has announced that the total in-quota quantity of specialty sugar will be the 1,656 MTRV included in the WTO minimum, plus an additional 170,000 MTRV.  The first tranche of 1,656 MTRV will open on October 1, 2018.  All types of specialty sugars are eligible for entry under this tranche.  The second tranche of 50,000 MTRV will open on October 10, 2018.  The third tranche of 50,000 MTRV will open on January 23, 2019.  The fourth and fifth tranches, both of 35,000 MTRV, will open on April 17, 2019 and July 17, 2019, respectively.  The second, third, fourth and fifth tranches will be reserved for organic sugar and other specialty sugars not currently produced commercially in the United States or reasonably available from domestic sources.
With respect to the in-quota quantity of 64,709 MTRV of the TRQ for imports of certain sugar-containing products maintained under Additional U.S. Note 8 to Chapter 17 of the HTS, USTR is allocating 59,250 MT to Canada.  The remainder of the in-quota quantity, 5,459 MTRV, is available for other countries on a first-come, first-served basis.
Refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for FY 2019 TRQs may enter the United States as of October 1, 2018.
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


Joint Statement on Trilateral Meeting of the Trade Ministers of the United States, Japan, and the European Union
09/25/2018
Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative, and Mrs. Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, met in New York on 25 September 2018.
Statement on Concerns with Non-Market-Oriented Policies and Practices of Third Countries
The Ministers reiterated their concern with and confirmed their shared objective to address non market-oriented policies and practices of third countries that lead to severe overcapacity, create unfair competitive conditions for their workers and businesses, hinder the development and use of innovative technologies, and undermine the proper functioning of international trade, including where existing rules are not effective.
The Ministers recalled that market-oriented conditions are fundamental to a fair, mutually advantageous global trading system and that their citizens and businesses operate under market-oriented conditions.  They discussed actions being taken and possible measures that could be undertaken in the near future.
Accordingly, they directed their staff to further their discussion on various elements or indications that signal that non-market oriented policies and practices exist for businesses and industries, to enhance information sharing on non-market-oriented policies and practices of third countries, to engage with other trading partners on identifying means to maintain market-oriented conditions, and to deepen discussions on enforcement and rule-making as tools to address these problems.
Statement on Industrial Subsidies and State Owned Enterprise
The Ministers reviewed and confirmed progress regarding possible new rules on industrial subsidies and State Owned Enterprises so as to promote a more level playing field for their workers and businesses.  The Ministers highlighted the importance of securing a level playing field given the challenges posed by third parties developing State Owned Enterprises into national champions and setting them loose in global markets – resulting in distortions that negatively affect farmers, industrial producers, and workers in the Ministers’ home countries. The Ministers recognized the progress of their work, and the continued need to deepen their shared understanding, on the basis for strengthening rules on industrial subsidies and State Owned Enterprises, including how to develop effective rules to address market-distorting behavior of state enterprises and confront particularly harmful subsidy practices such as: state-owned bank lending incompatible with a company’s creditworthiness, including due to implicit government guarantees; government or government-controlled investment fund equity investment on non-commercial terms; non-commercial debt-to-equity swaps; preferential input pricing, including dual pricing; subsidies to an ailing enterprise without a credible restructuring plan; and subsidies leading to or maintaining overcapacity. 
The trilateral partners continue exploring how to increase the costs of transparency and notification failures and how to strengthen the ability to obtain information on subsidies. 
The Ministers also confirmed their commitment to continue working together to maintain the effectiveness of existing WTO disciplines.
On that basis, they agreed to intensify discussions among themselves and expressed their intention to advance their respective internal steps before the end of 2018 with the aim of initiating a negotiation on more effective subsidy rules soon thereafter. The Ministers emphasized the need to ensure the participation of key trading partners in these future negotiations.
Statement on Concerns with Forced Technology Transfer Policies and Practices of Third Countries
The Ministers recalled their shared view that no country should require or pressure technology transfer from foreign companies to domestic companies, including, for example, through the use of joint venture requirements, foreign equity limitations, administrative review and licensing processes, or other means. The Ministers found such practices to be deplorable.
The Ministers again condemned government actions that support the unauthorized intrusion into, and theft from, the computer networks of foreign companies to access their sensitive commercial information and trade secrets and use that information for commercial gain.  Recalling that forced technology transfer policies and practices create unfair competitive conditions for their workers and businesses, hinder the development and use of innovative technologies, and undermine the proper functioning of international trade, the Ministers will reach out to and build consensus with other like-minded partners. The Ministers also agreed to deepen their investigation and analysis of the full range of harmful technology transfer policies and practices and their effects.
The Ministers affirmed their commitment to effective means to stop harmful forced technology transfer policies and practices, and to this end, deepen discussions on enforcement and rule-making as tools to address these problems.
Statement on Discussions on WTO Reform
The Ministers shared a common view on the need for the reform of the WTO, and, with respect to its monitoring and surveillance function, agreed as a first step to co-sponsor a transparency and notification proposal for consideration at the next meeting of the WTO Council on Trade in Goods.
They also agreed to promote the strengthening of the regular committees’ activities and instructed their experts to discuss the development of a potential joint proposal by the three members focusing on the promotion of best practices and increasing efficiencies across committees.
Overly broad classifications of development, combined with self-designation of development status, inhibits the WTO’s ability to negotiate new, trade-expanding agreements and undermines their effectiveness.  The Ministers called on advanced WTO Members claiming developing country status to undertake full commitments in ongoing and future WTO negotiations.
Statement on Digital Trade and E-Commerce
The Ministers shared growing concerns about proliferation of digital protectionism and agreed to cooperate in facilitating digital trade and the growth of the digital economy and to enhance business environments through the promotion of data security.
The Ministers welcome the progress of exploratory work under the WTO Joint Statement Initiative on Electronic Commerce.  They agreed to intensify and accelerate this process to deepen understanding among members on possible elements to be included in a future agreement on digital trade aiming at updating the WTO rulebook, as well as the significant economic benefits of such an agreement.  The Ministers agreed to continue work toward the timely launch of negotiations of a high standard agreement with the participation of as many members as possible.
Statement on Cooperation on Other Issues
The Ministers confirmed the importance of coordination among themselves to mitigate risks to their national security from trade and foreign investment, including the continued cooperation between appropriate authorities of the three partners to share best practices and exchange information on foreign investment review mechanisms.
The Ministers welcomed trilateral cooperation for the International Working Group on Export Credits to develop a new set of guidelines for government-supported export credits as soon as possible in 2019.
The Ministers reaffirmed their cooperation in international fora, such as the G7, G20 and the OECD and in sectoral initiatives such as the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity and Governments/Authorities Meeting on Semiconductors, to address market-distorting measures.


Joint Statement from United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland
09/30/2018
“Today, Canada and the United States reached an agreement, alongside Mexico, on a new, modernized trade agreement for the 21st Century: the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). USMCA will give our workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses a high-standard trade agreement that will result in freer markets, fairer trade and robust economic growth in our region.  It will strengthen the middle class, and create good, well-paying jobs and new opportunities for the nearly half billion people who call North America home. 
“We look forward to further deepening our close economic ties when this new agreement enters into force. 

“We would like to thank Mexican Economy Secretary Ildefonso Guajardo for his close collaboration over the past 13 months.” 


Trump Administration Announces Intent to Negotiate Trade Agreements with Japan, the European Union and the United Kingdom
10/16/2018
Washington, DC – At the direction of the President, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today notified Congress that the Trump Administration intends to negotiate three separate trade agreements with Japan, the European Union and the United Kingdom.
“Under President Trump’s leadership, we will continue to expand U.S. trade and investment by negotiating trade agreements with Japan, the EU and the United Kingdom,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Today’s announcement is an important milestone in that process. We are committed to concluding these negotiations with timely and substantive results for American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.”
In officially notifying Congress, the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) is following the procedures set out in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 – often referred to as Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) – which requires ongoing consultations with Congress.  These consultations ensure that USTR develops negotiating positions with the benefit of Congress’ views. USTR will also publish notices in the Federal Register requesting the public’s input on the direction, focus and content of the trade negotiations.
In accordance with TPA, USTR will publish objectives for the negotiations at least 30 days before formal trade negotiations begin.
To read the notification letters sent to Congress regarding Japan, click here.
To read the notification letters sent to Congress regarding the European Union, click here.
To read the notification letters sent to Congress regarding the United Kingdom, click here.
Background Information
U.S.-Japan Trade
U.S. goods and services trade with Japan totaled an estimated $283.6 billion in 2017. Exports were $114 billion; imports were $169.5 billion. The U.S. goods and services trade deficit with Japan was $55.5 billion in 2017.
U.S.-EU Trade
U.S. goods and services trade with the EU totaled nearly $1.2 trillion in 2017.  Exports totaled $527 billion; Imports totaled $627 billion.  The U.S. goods and services trade deficit with the EU was $100 billion in 2017.  
U.S.-UK Trade
U.S. goods and services trade with United Kingdom totaled an estimated $235.9 billion in 2017. Exports were $125.9 billion; imports were $110.0 billion. The U.S. goods and services trade surplus with United Kingdom was $15.9 billion in 2017.


U.S. Statement on the United States - Central Asia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
10/16/2018
Tashkent, Uzbekistan
October 16, 2018
Today, senior officials of the governments of the United States, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Turkmenistan met for the Council Meeting of the U.S.-Central Asia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) to discuss the trade and investment environment in Central Asia and the United States. Afghanistan and Pakistan participated as observers.  
Under the TIFA, the member countries launched the Intellectual Property (IP) Working Group, which will facilitate development of robust IP protection and enforcement policies to promote economic growth, creativity, and the health and safety of all countries in the region. The countries also launched the work of the Group on Women’s Economic Empowerment. Other Working Groups met on customs, standards, sanitary and phytosanitary measures.    
The TIFA Council expressed deep appreciation to the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan for its hospitality and agreed that the next meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia TIFA Council would take place in Washington, DC 2019.


The United States and Chile Hold the Twelfth Meeting of the Free Trade Commission under the U.S.-Chile Free Trade Agreement
10/17/2018
Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, October 16, 2018, Deputy United States Trade Representative Ambassador C.J. Mahoney and Chile’s Director General for International Economic Affairs Rodrigo Yáñez chaired the twelfth meeting of the United States – Chile Free Trade Commission (the “Commission” or “FTC”).  The Commission is responsible for overseeing the ongoing elaboration and implementation of the United States – Chile Free Trade Agreement (the “Agreement” or “FTA”).
Officials from both countries reviewed the impact of the Agreement since the last Commission meeting in December 2016.  Both Parties underscored the importance of ensuring the effective implementation of the Agreement, which has been in force since January 1, 2004.
Officials from both countries recognized the value of their dialogue regarding the implementation of Chapter 17 (Intellectual Property Rights).  Chile explained the status of ongoing domestic work regarding intellectual property matters, including the passage of legislation targeting certain aspects of satellite piracy.  Both the United States and Chile underscored the value of strengthening and improving cooperation on intellectual property between the two countries.
Officials also discussed a number of other bilateral matters of interest, including pharmaceutical patent-related issues, nutritional labeling, and the status of product specific rules of origin change requests. 
In accordance with Article 21.1.3 (b) of the FTA, the Commission signed a Decision agreeing to modify Annex 4.1 (Specific Rules of Origin) of the FTA to maintain consistency with 2017 updates to the nomenclature for the Harmonized Tariff Code System. 
The United States and Chile held meetings of the Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Matters on Thursday, October 11 and the Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade on Monday, October 15.  The Commission also reviewed outcomes of the eighth meeting of the Environmental Affairs Council under the FTA and the sixth meeting of the Joint Commission for Environmental Cooperation under the United States-Chile Environmental Cooperation Agreement, which took place in Santiago, Chile on September 4-5, 2018. 
As the United States and Chile approach the fifteenth anniversary of the Agreement’s entry into force, the United States looks forward to continuing its engagement with Chile to fully implement the FTA to the benefit of both countries.
Background
For the United States, total two-way goods trade with Chile totaled $24.2 billion in 2017 and total two-way services trade totaled $6 billion in 2016.  In 2017, Chile was the United States’ fifth largest goods trading partner in the Western Hemisphere and 29th largest overall goods trading partner.  The United States maintained a trade surplus with Chile in both goods and services totaling $3.1 billion in 2017 and $2.6 billion in 2016 respectively. 


Joint Statement by U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer and Philippine Secretary of Trade and Industry Ramon M. Lopez
10/22/2018
October 22, 2018
Following the bilateral meeting between the United States and the Philippines on August 31, 2018 in Singapore, during the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Economic Ministers Meeting, and recalling the Joint Statement Between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines issued on November 13, 2017, U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer and Philippine Secretary of Trade and Industry Ramon M. Lopez are pleased to announce several recent achievements resolving bilateral trade issues under their bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (“TIFA”).
Both Governments agree that enhanced bilateral engagement on trade under the TIFA should include work that yields benefits for agricultural producers, importers, exporters and consumers, and intend to work together in a number of areas.  Specifically, the United States and the Philippines intend to collaborate on the development of cold chain requirements and best practices in the Philippines, taking into account international guidelines and codes of practice regarding food hygiene adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.  This work will build on private sector and local efforts already underway in the Philippines to improve the existing cold chain. The United States agrees to make best efforts, subject to availability of U.S. resources, to provide technical assistance to enhance cold chain development and management in the Philippines.
The United States welcomes the Philippines’ efforts to ensure the WTO-consistent valuation of agricultural imports for duty collection purposes, including the enforcement of laws, regulations, and policies prohibiting the use of reference pricing. 
The Philippines recognizes the U.S. interest in the extension of Philippine tariff rates on certain agricultural products.  The Philippines further recognizes that said rates would help contribute to stable prices for food products.  The Philippines commits to expeditious consideration of petitions for the extension of such rates, consistent with established procedural rules. 
The United States notes that the Philippines is continuing to protect geographical indications (GIs) in a manner mutually beneficial to both countries by ensuring transparency, due process, and fairness in the laws, regulations, and practices that provide for the protection of GIs, including by respecting prior trademark rights and not restricting the use of common names.  The United States welcomes the commitment of the Philippines to further discuss ways to ensure that Philippine laws, regulations, and policies do not restrict or prohibit entry of U.S. products in the Philippine market. The Philippines confirms to the United States that it will not provide automatic GI protection, including to terms exchanged as part of a trade agreement.
The Philippines welcomes the progress made with the United States on a number of agricultural trade issues related to access to the U.S. market for mango, young green coconuts, and carrageenan, as well as the expansion of the Generalized System of Preferences Program to include travel goods.
Both Governments pledge to cooperate on the implementation of a U.S. work program in the context of the ASEAN-United States Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement on automotive standards issues.  The United States recognizes the Philippines’ commitment to the continued acceptance of vehicles that meet multiple high-standard automotive standards, including, among others, the U.S. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS).
Both Governments agree to continue technical dialogue and policy discussions on the National Retail Payments System (“NRPS”) and other measures related to electronic payment services, including domestic retail debit and credit electronic payment transactions.  The United States recognizes the Philippines’ goal of increasing Philippine consumers’ use of electronic payments for domestic retail transactions and further welcomes the Philippines commitment to policies that permit cross-border supply of electronic payment services, do not restrict the total number of service suppliers, and do not favor any domestic suppliers over international suppliers.
Both governments agree to a continued dialogue on priority issues of interest to both countries, including for the Philippines, discussions on seeking relief from U.S. safeguard measures on solar cells and Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum.
###
Background
The United States and Philippines have long enjoyed a close bilateral relationship, sharing a common language and extensive cultural linkages, including more than four million Filipinos and Filipino-Americans living and studying in the United States.  Trade and investment have connected the Philippines and the United States for over a century and continue to underscore the close ties between the two countries.  The U.S-Philippines Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (“TIFA”), concluded in 1989, has served as an important vehicle for the United States to engage with the Philippines and make measurable progress on a number of key issues.
Total bilateral trade has grown over the decades to an estimated $27.0 billion in 2016, comprising just over $18 billion in goods trade and nearly $9 billion in services.  The Philippines is also a leading beneficiary of the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences program, with roughly $1.5 billion of Philippine goods exports to the United States entering the U.S. market duty free every year. Two-way investment stock stands at around $7 billion.


Joint Statement on the Second Meeting of the United States-Argentina Council on Trade and Investment
10/22/2018
Washington, DC – On Friday, October 19, 2018, officials from the United States and Argentina held the second meeting of the United States-Argentina Council on Trade and Investment under the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) signed in 2016. The meeting was chaired by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney for the United States; and co-chaired for Argentina by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Secretary for International Economic Relations Horacio Reyser and the Ministry of Production’s Under Secretary for Foreign Trade Shunko Rojas.  USTR’s Chief Agricultural Negotiator Ambassador Gregg Doud and Argentina’s Ambassador to the United States Fernando Oris de Roa also participated in the meeting.
Officials discussed a wide range of bilateral trade and investment issues, including their respective ongoing international trade negotiations and initiatives, bilateral agricultural market access issues, and ongoing work in the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity. The officials also discussed cooperation on bilateral and multilateral trade initiatives, such as fisheries subsidies, industrial subsidies and state-owned enterprises, and agricultural issues of mutual interest.  Officials took stock of the discussions in the Forum on Innovation and Creativity for Economic Development, including on fostering cooperation on innovation, the patent backlog, enforcement actions against pirated and counterfeit goods, and pending legislation.  Officials agreed to hold the next Forum meeting in early 2019. 
The United States and Argentina look forward to continuing a constructive and open engagement under the TIFA with the goal of strengthening bilateral and economic ties to the benefit of both countries. The two countries also agreed to work together toward a commercially meaningful outcome in the ongoing World Trade Organization initiative on electronic commerce.  
Two-way trade in goods and services between the United States and Argentina totaled $26.3 billion in 2017. Two-way trade in goods totaled $14.3 billion and two-way trade in services totaled an estimated $12 billion in 2017.


Joint Statement on the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Council
10/24/2018
Washington, DC – Ambassador Jeffrey Gerrish and First Vice Prime Minister – Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Stepan Kubiv released the following joint statement after the eighth meeting of the United States – Ukraine Trade and Investment Council (TIC) held in Washington, DC on October 23, 2018:
“In the interest of deepening our close economic ties, today we co-hosted the eighth meeting of the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Council to strengthen our bilateral trade and investment relationship.  Despite the challenges it faces, Ukraine continues to work towards reforming its economy and strengthening its business and investment environment.  The United States has expressed its continued support in ensuring a more independent, democratic and prosperous Ukraine.
“The meeting included presentations from representatives of the business sector, which helped inform our discussions.  Our relationships with businesses are vital to ensuring a long-term positive relationship between our two countries.  
“In the government-to-government portion of the meeting, we discussed steps to expand bilateral trade in both agricultural and industrial products.  We mutually agreed on the importance of transparency and predictability of rules governing imports of a variety of products. 
“We noted the productive work of the Working Groups established to discuss technical and sanitary and phytosanitary barriers to trade and how to minimize those barriers.  We also noted the intensive work of the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Working Group.  Their work contributed to the adoption of a new law on collective management in Ukraine, and we encouraged their continued engagement to address outstanding concerns with that law and to ensure the development of a transparent, fair, and predictable system for the collective management of royalties.  The experts noted their plans for future engagement on other draft IPR laws in Ukraine and in support of enhanced enforcement of current IPR laws. 
“We also discussed our ongoing cooperation in bilateral investment relations.  We agreed on the need for a reliable judiciary to demonstrate the importance of Ukraine’s commitment to the rule of law in creating an attractive investment environment.   The United States raised particular concerns about the effect of the “informal” market on U.S. businesses’ ability to prosper in Ukraine.   Emphasizing the importance of a transparent and predictable legal and regulatory environment, the delegations discussed proposed new rules governing electronic payment systems, as well as steps to address the unpredictable environment for refunds of value-added tax, transportation logistics, and agricultural export controls.
“We are committed to working together to support Ukraine’s continued reform efforts and to continue to build a strong and prosperous relationship.  We look forward to expanding our efforts in the next TIC meeting in Kyiv in 2019.”
Background
The United States and Ukraine signed the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Cooperation Agreement (TICA) in 2008.  The TICA established the TIC as the primary intergovernmental mechanism for discussion of trade and investment relations between the two countries.


President Trump Terminates Trade Preference Program Eligibility for Mauritania
11/02/2018
Washington, DC – President Donald J. Trump announced today his intent to terminate the eligibility of Mauritania for trade preference benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), as of January 1, 2019, due to forced labor practices.  The President notified Congress and the Government of Mauritania accordingly.
Based on the results of the required annual AGOA eligibility review, the President determined that Mauritania is not making sufficient progress toward establishing the protection of internationally recognized worker rights.  Consequently, Mauritania is out of compliance with eligibility requirements of AGOA.  Specifically, Mauritania has made insufficient progress toward combating forced labor, in particular the scourge of hereditary slavery.  In addition, the Government of Mauritania continues to restrict the ability of civil society to work freely to address anti-slavery issues. 
“Forced or compulsory labor practices like hereditary slavery have no place in the 21st century,” said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney. “This action underscores this Administration’s commitment to ending modern slavery and enforcing labor provisions in our trade laws and trade agreements.  We hope Mauritania will work with us to eradicate forced labor and hereditary slavery so that its AGOA eligibility may be restored in the future.”
The United States will continue to monitor whether Mauritania is making continual progress toward the protection of internationally recognized worker rights (including with respect to forced labor) in accordance with the AGOA eligibility requirements.
Background
Mauritania continues to have the highest prevalence of hereditary slavery in the world.  At a public hearing held on August 16, 2018 for the annual AGOA eligibility review, a representative of the American Federation of Labor & Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) assessed Mauritania’s record of combatting hereditary slavery and concluded that it has failed to meet AGOA’s eligibility criteria with respect to internationally recognized worker rights, including a prohibition on the use of any form of forced or compulsory labor, the right of association, and the right to organize and bargain collectively. Public comments and hearing testimony related to the annual AGOA eligibility review can be accessed at www.regulations.gov under docket number USTR-2018-022.
In order to qualify for AGOA trade benefits, partner countries must meet certain statutory eligibility requirements, including making continual progress toward establishing internationally recognized worker rights, which includes a prohibition on the use of any form of forced or compulsory labor.  Other criteria include not engaging in gross violations of internationally recognized human rights and making continual progress toward establishing the rule of law, political pluralism, and the elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment.


Fifth Meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group
11/09/2018
Washington, D.C. – The United States and the United Kingdom held the fifth meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group November 2nd through November 7th, and the third meeting of the U.S.-UK Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) Dialogue on November 1st.  
The Working Group, established in July 2017 by United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and UK Secretary of State for International Trade and President of the Board of Trade Dr. Liam Fox MP, has been focusing on providing commercial continuity for U.S. and UK businesses, workers, and consumers as the UK leaves the EU and exploring ways to strengthen trade and investment ties both now and in the future, including through a free trade agreement. 
Since its inception, the Working Group has been laying the groundwork for a potential, future free trade agreement once the UK has left the EU.  In the fifth Working Group, representatives of the United States and the United Kingdom continued to exchange information on trade policy-related issues to build on the strength of our existing trade and investment relationship and ensure that both sides are well-prepared to open trade negotiations after the UK leaves the EU in 2019.  The Working Group delegations were led by officials from USTR and the UK Department for International Trade (DIT) and included representatives from a wide range of U.S. and UK Government departments and agencies.  The Working Group covered topics, including industrial and agricultural goods; services and investment, including financial services; digital trade; intellectual property rights (IPR); regulatory issues related to trade; and Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs).  Officials also worked together to ensure continuity in the UK/U.S. trading and economic relationship underpinned by international agreements as the UK leaves the EU. 
The 3rd U.S.-UK SME Dialogue focused on the topic of digital trade benefits for SMEs and e-commerce tools to promote SME exports.  Over 100 U.S. and UK SME stakeholders met with government officials from USTR, U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Small Business Administration, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, National Institute of Standards and Technology, and regional economic development offices for the United States; and for the United Kingdom, from DIT, UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), UK Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, and the UK Information Commissioner’s Office.  At the SME Dialogue, the United States and the UK released joint e-commerce guides for small businesses selling online into both markets. 
To read the e-commerce guide for U.S. small businesses to sell online in the UK, click here. 
To read the e-commerce guide for UK small businesses to sell online to the U.S., click here.
The UK will host the 4th SME Dialogue in the summer of 2019, focused on the U.S.-UK trade and commercial relationship post-Brexit.  In addition, the United States and UK agreed to hold a sectoral-focused SME ‘best practice’ exchange on marine technology on April 9, 2019 at the Oceans Business conference in Southampton, UK. The United States also extended an invitation to the UK to join the 11th Americas Competitiveness Exchange in Puerto Rico in May 2019. 
Background
DIT has run a public consultation seeking views on a potential trade agreement with the United States, which closed on October 26. The UK government is currently reviewing the public submissions and will respond in due course. Also in October, Ambassador Lighthizer sent a notification to the U.S. Congress, in accordance with Trade Promotion Authority law, regarding the Administration’s intent to begin negotiations with the UK on a trade agreement after the UK has left the European Union on March 29, 2019. 
Trade between the two countries is already worth over $230 billion a year, the United States is the single biggest source of inward investment into the UK, and together there is over $1.2 trillion invested in each other's economies.


United States Issues WTO Counter Notification Against India’s Market Price Support for Cotton
11/13/2018
Washington, DC - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue today announced that the United States submitted a counter notification in the World Trade Organization (WTO) Committee on Agriculture (COA) on India’s market price support (MPS) for cotton. The United States has been calling for WTO reform to improve the review process of various Committees in the WTO. To continue to improve transparency in the WTO, the United States filed the second U.S. COA notification under the WTO Agreement on Agriculture regarding another country’s measures on November 9, 2018.
Based on U.S. calculations, it appears that India has substantially underreported its market price support for cotton. When calculated according to WTO Agreement on Agriculture methodology, India’s market price support for cotton far exceeded its allowable levels of trade distorting domestic support. The United States expects a robust discussion on how India implements and notifies its policies at the next COA meeting, which is scheduled for November 26-27, 2018.
Background:
On November 9, 2018, the United States submitted a counter notification in the WTO Committee on Agriculture on India’s market price support for cotton – based on publicly available information. The United States has identified several areas of potential concern with India’s notification of its market price support for cotton. These include issues with the quantity of production used in market price support calculations, exclusion from India’s notifications of information on the total value of production (VoP) of cotton (information necessary to assess compliance with WTO commitments), and issues with currency conversions.


Joint Statement on the 4th U.S.-Nepal Trade and Investment Framework Council Meeting
11/15/2018
Washington, D.C. – The United States-Nepal Trade and Investment Framework (TIFA) Council held its fourth meeting on November 13, 2018 in Washington, D.C. to promote expanded bilateral trade and investment in both goods and services as well as technical assistance. The meeting was co-chaired by Mark Linscott, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative, and Chandra Kumar Ghimire, Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Supplies, Government of Nepal.
During the meeting, Nepal and the United States discussed the range of bilateral trade and investment issues covered under the TIFA and acknowledged the increase in bilateral trade during 2017. Both sides noted Nepal’s new era of political stability as an opportunity to advance transformative reforms to Nepal’s business environment and further increase trade, investment, and economic growth. Officials focused on labor reforms, investment promotion, implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement, digital trade and e-commerce, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, as well as greater market access and reform in Nepal’s agricultural sector. The United States engaged with Nepal to identify ways to foster innovation and improve the business climate through draft legislation that would increase intellectual property protections and facilitate foreign investment. The United States welcomed the opportunity to provide comments on the draft legislation. The United States also expressed a willingness to explore further technical assistance to Nepal to increase trade and investment.
Nepal and the United States discussed the importance of fully utilizing preferential trade benefits for select products from Nepal, available through December 31, 2025 as a result of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. The United States took note of Nepal’s interest in expanding utilization of the trade preference program, promoting investment in Nepal, and enhancing trade capacity-building support for stronger economic growth.
Both governments pledged their commitment to deepen their engagement in these issue areas over the coming months in intersessional meetings to make progress in advance of the 5th TIFA Council Meeting, to be held in Kathmandu, Nepal in 2019.
Background:  
The Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) Between the Government of Nepal and the United States of America entered into force on April 15, 2011. Objectives of the agreement include the expansion of trade, investment and technical cooperation, and strengthening economic relations between the two countries. 
Following the 2015 earthquakes in Nepal, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 established a new country-specific preference program to grant duty-free treatment to Nepal for products covered by 77 Harmonized Tariff Schedule lines (including handicrafts, shawls, and travel goods). 
Nepal and the United States had $168 million in total (two-way) goods trade during 2017, a 30 percent increase compared to 2016. 
Joint Statement of the United States-Ecuador Trade and Investment Council
11/15/2018
On November 15, the United States and Ecuador held the second meeting of the United States-Ecuador Trade and Investment Council (TIC). The meeting reflects the interest of both countries in re-engaging and deepening trade and investment ties, and comes after a gap of nine years since the prior meeting. Representatives of both countries discussed a broad range of trade and investment-related issues, including bilateral trade and investment flows, cooperation projects, intellectual property aspects related to trade, investment issues, and trade in agricultural and fishery products.
The delegations were led by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador C.J. Mahoney, and by Ecuador’s Minister of Production, Foreign Trade, and Investment, Mr. Pablo Campana Sáenz. Both delegations were accompanied by officials from a number of trade and regulatory agencies.
The two sides welcomed the opportunity to enhance the bilateral dialogue on these key issues, and agreed on the importance of further expanding trade and investment between the United States and Ecuador, by taking steps to achieve a strong and stable relationship that can contribute to concrete benefits for both nations. We look forward to expanding our efforts in the next TIC meeting planned for Quito in 2019.
 


USTR Updates Section 301 Investigation
11/20/2018
Washington, DC -- The Office of the United States Trade Representative today released a report updating information on its Section 301 investigation of China’s acts, policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property and innovation.
“We completed this update as part of this Administration’s strengthened monitoring and enforcement effort,” Ambassador Robert Lighthizer said. “This update shows that China has not fundamentally altered its unfair, unreasonable, and market-distorting practices that were the subject of the March 2018 report on our Section 301 investigation.”
To read the report, click here.


USTR Statement on China’s Auto Tariffs
11/28/2018
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding China’s tariffs on U.S.-produced automobiles:
“As the President has repeatedly noted, China’s aggressive, State-directed industrial policies are causing severe harm to U.S. workers and manufacturers.  We are continuing to raise these issues with China.  As of yet, China has not come to the table with proposals for meaningful reform. 
“China’s policies are especially egregious with respect to automobile tariffs.  Currently, China imposes a tariff of 40 percent on U.S. automobiles.  This is more than double the rate of 15 percent that China imposes on its other trading partners, and approximately one and a half times higher than the 27.5 percent tariff that the United States currently applies to Chinese-produced automobiles.  At the President’s direction, I will examine all available tools to equalize the tariffs applied to automobiles.” 


U.S. Beef Gains New Market Access in Morocco
12/06/2018
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced today that the government of Morocco has agreed to allow imports of U.S. beef and beef products into Morocco. 2018 is the first year that U.S. beef and poultry exporters have access to Morocco’s market under the terms of the U.S.-Morocco Free Trade Agreement (FTA).  Morocco opened its market to U.S. poultry in August, 2018.
“President Trump continues to prioritize the opening of new markets for U.S. agricultural products.  New access to the Moroccan market for beef and beef products is an important step in ensuring that American farmers and ranchers can continue to expand their exports of U.S. agricultural products,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “I welcome Morocco’s agreement to allow imports of U.S. beef and look forward to growing our shipments to Morocco.”
“Finding new markets for American agricultural products has been a priority for the Trump Administration from day one, and the opening of the Moroccan market is good news for our producers,” said Secretary Perdue.  “American beef is the best in the world, and once Moroccans get a taste of it, they’ll surely want more.”
In 2017, the United States was the world’s third largest beef exporter, with global sales of beef and beef products valued at $7.3 billion. As of November 2018, U.S. exports of agricultural products to Morocco exceeded $512 million.  Initial estimates indicate that Morocco would be an $80 million market for U.S. beef and beef products.  Morocco had prohibited imports of U.S. beef. 
Under the  leadership of USTR Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Amb. Gregg Doud and the direction of U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Ken Isley, U.S. and Moroccan officials met to negotiate a health certificate and the terms for the import of U.S. high quality and standard quality beef into Morocco.  Representatives also discussed improvements to the administration of Morocco’s wheat tariff-rate quota and other agriculture and SPS issues, and will continue this work through the agriculture and SPS subcommittees under the FTA.
More details on requirements for exporting to Morocco will be available from the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service Export Library at:  https://www.fsis.usda.gov/wps/portal/fsis/topics/international-affairs/exporting-products/export-library-requirements-by-country/Morocco.


Joint Statement on the United States-Moldova Joint Commercial Council
12/06/2018
Washington, DC – The United States and Moldova met on December 6 in Washington, DC, under the auspices of the United States - Moldova Joint Commercial Council (JCC). State Secretary of Economy and Infrastructure of Moldova Vitalie Iurcu and Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East L. Daniel Mullaney released the following joint statement after co-hosting the third annual meeting of the JCC:
“The United States - Moldova Joint Commercial Council demonstrates the continued cooperation between the United States and Moldova to increase bilateral trade and grow investment opportunities. This third meeting highlighted Moldova’s economic reform efforts while reaffirming commitments to remove ongoing barriers to trade and investment flows.
“The first half of the meeting focused on steps to facilitate commerce and expand trade.   We discussed tariff issues, such as the different tariff rates on tractors.  We reviewed the importance of transparent and predictable regulatory practices and committed to the continued recognition of international standards and nondiscriminatory policies.   The delegations explored ideas to support Moldova’s agricultural sector and grow its export opportunities.  We also reviewed Moldova’s opportunities and obligations under the Generalized System of Preferences. 
“In the second part of the meeting, the delegations discussed steps to improve Moldova’s attractiveness as a destination for foreign investment.  The United States welcomed Moldova’s commitment to strengthen the rule of law and combat corruption to encourage investment.  We also reviewed the benefits derived from strong protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) regimes to foster innovation and economic growth.  Further, we discussed the value of growing Moldova’s digital economy and information technology sector and explored opportunities for growing ties through the developing digital economy, while prioritizing cybersecurity and critical information technology infrastructure.  Finally, we discussed steps to build a transparent and reliable public procurement regime.
“As we deepen our partnership, the United States and Moldova look forward to the continuation of the dialogue to enhance bilateral trade and investment opportunities.”


Public Hearing on Negotiating Objectives for U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement
12/07/2018
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold a public hearing from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EST on December 10, 2018 regarding a proposed U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement, including U.S. interests and priorities in order to develop U.S. negotiating positions.
The hearings will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The hearing is a part of the public notice and comment process following USTR’s notification to Congress on October 16, 2018 of the Trump Administration’s intention to enter into negotiations with Japan for a U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement.
The Federal Register notice publishing the request for comments on negotiating objectives can be viewed here.
Click here to view a schedule of witnesses.


Treasury, USTR Finalize Bilateral Agreement With the UK on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance
12/11/2018
Washington – The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced their intent to sign the Bilateral Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (U.S.-UK Covered Agreement). Consistent with the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement signed in 2017, the Administration intends to issue a U.S. policy statement regarding implementation of the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement.
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement is an important step in providing regulatory certainty and market continuity as the United Kingdom prepares to leave the European Union in March 2019, as well as in making U.S. companies more competitive in domestic and foreign markets and making regulations more efficient, effective, and appropriately tailored. The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement also benefits the U.S. economy and consumers by affirming the U.S. state-based system of insurance regulation and increasing growth opportunities for U.S. insurers.
Click here to view the text of the Agreement and here for the Covered Agreement Letters to Congress.


Public Hearing on Negotiating Objectives for U.S.-EU Trade Agreement
12/13/2018
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold a public hearing from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EST on December 14, 2018 regarding a proposed U.S.-European Union Trade Agreement, including U.S. interests and priorities in order to develop U.S. negotiating positions.
The hearing will take place in the Auditorium of the Herbert C. Hoover Building, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20230.
The hearing is a part of the public notice and comment process following USTR’s notification to Congress on October 16, 2018 of the Trump Administration’s intention to enter into negotiations with the European Union for a U.S.-EU Trade Agreement.
The Federal Register notice publishing the request for comments on negotiating objectives can be viewed here.
Click here to view a schedule of witnesses.
NOTES: Foreign nationals who wish to attend must register with the U.S. Department of Commerce Office of Public Affairs by emailing publicaffairs@doc.gov by 4:00 PM EST Thursday, December 13 to enter the building. 
All media and attendees should note that the hearing is on the record but no external cameras or video recording will be allowed in the hearing room. A full transcript of the hearing will be posted on USTR.gov and the public docket on Regulations.gov. 


United States Secures Final Win in Tuna / Dolphin-Safe Labeling Dispute with Mexico
12/14/2018
Washington, DC – The U.S. Trade Representative today responded to the World Trade Organization (WTO) appellate report in the US – Tuna / Dolphin-Safe Labeling dispute brought by Mexico against the United States, finding in favor of the United States.
“The WTO has finally confirmed – as we’ve said all along – that U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements are consistent with WTO rules,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “After more than 10 years and multiple erroneous WTO reports, the latest compliance reports have finally reached the right conclusion, ending this long-standing dispute. The WTO dispute settlement system should not be used to impose new obligations on WTO Members, and it should not encourage countries to use aggressive litigation tactics to attack fair and neutral environmental measures.”


Statement of the United States by Ambassador Dennis Shea at the 14th WTO Trade Policy Review of the United States of America
12/17/2018
Geneva, Switzerland
December 17, 2018
Madam Chair, Ambassadors, colleagues,
We are pleased to participate once again in the trade policy review of the United States.  We are honored to see the large number of ambassadors and permanent representatives at today’s meeting.  Thank you for the time you are taking to participate in this important process.
We especially appreciate the participation of Ambassador Frances Lisson, Permanent Representative of Australia, whom we are honored to have as our discussant.  And I want to thank Ambassador Sunanta Kangvalkulkij of Thailand for stepping in and serving as chair of this TPR.
We also want to acknowledge the Secretariat’s team for their work in producing an informative report that provides a basis for today’s discussion.  Again this year, as in past reviews, our colleagues in Washington appreciated the chance to engage in a vigorous and productive discussion with the professionals of the Secretariat’s TPR Division. So, I want to thank you and your team.
The United States places high value on the trade policy review process, which is important for promoting greater awareness and understanding of Members’ trade policies and practices.  It is for this reason that we actively engage in all Members’ trade policy reviews and that we work diligently to answer the ever increasing number of questions we receive every two years.  We have set a new U.S. record of more than 1700 questions with this review.  We provided answers to all questions that were submitted two weeks prior to today’s meeting, as well as those submitted within a few days after the deadline.  We are working hard to respond to the additional questions received just last week, and we hope to have responses as soon as possible.
As the United States undergoes its fourteenth Trade Policy Review— that’s more than any other Member—we are committed to reforming the global trading system in ways that lead to fairer outcomes for U.S. workers and businesses, and more efficient markets for countries around the world.  U.S. trade policy is driven by a pragmatic determination to secure these objectives.  Our trade policy is steadfastly focused on the national interest, including retaining and using U.S. sovereign power to act in defense of that interest.  U.S. trade policy rests on five major pillars: supporting U.S. national security, strengthening the U.S. economy, negotiating better trade deals, aggressive enforcement of U.S. trade laws, and reforming the multilateral trading system.
Colleagues, I want to leave you today with three key points.  First, the United States maintains one of the world’s most open trade regimes that is firmly based in the rule of law and that is a powerful engine for global growth.  Second, we continue to seek trade liberalization and will deepen our relationships with countries who share our commitment to fair market competition and reciprocity.  Third, the United States is raising serious concerns with the functioning and direction of this important institution, and the fundamental challenge posed by China’s state-led, mercantilist approach to the economy and trade.  This is not mere chatter, nor is it unilateralist or protectionist.  The United States is taking important steps to begin to address these fundamental issues, and we are committed to working with like-minded Members to do so. 
Open Economy, Engine for Global Growth
The United States is one of the most open and competitive economies in the world.  We appreciate that this TPR process offers reminders of the openness of the U.S. trade regime, and of our interest in working with other Members of this institution to promote free, fair, and reciprocal trade.
Exemplifying our openness is the fact that the United States is the world’s largest single-country importer, importing goods and services that exceed the total size of the economies of all but three other countries in the world.  In 2017, the United States was the recipient of 19 percent of global goods and services exports, excluding U.S. exports and intra-EU exports, and 78 countries had the United States as their first, second, or third largest export partner.
U.S. tariffs are among the lowest in the world.  The current U.S. simple average tariff is 3.4 percent on an applied basis under the WTO and 2.4 percent on a trade-weighted basis.  By comparison, simple average applied tariffs in our top five trading partners range from 4.0 percent to 9.8 percent, and trade-weighted average tariffs range from 2.5 percent to 5.2 percent.  When tariff preferences are taken into account, the U.S. trade-weighted average tariff is under 2 percent on an applied basis.  In 2017, nearly 70 percent of all U.S. imports, including those under preference programs, entered the United States duty-free.  U.S. service markets also remain open to foreign providers and U.S. regulatory processes are transparent, accessible, and open to the public, including to non-U.S. citizens.
As these figures underscore, it is no exaggeration to say that the openness of the U.S. economy to goods and services is one of the most important sources of global economic stability.
In addition, the United States continues to be the world’s largest recipient of foreign direct investment (FDI).  The independent Secretariat Report attributes this to the United States’ “open markets, liberal investment regime, large consumer base, higher education system, skilled and productive workforce, a business environment that encourages innovation, legal protections, and the world’s largest venture capital and private equity market.”  The stock of FDI in the United States in 2017 was $4.03 trillion, and the United States had the largest inward flow of FDI of any country, at $275.4 billion, according to UNCTAD.  The United States is committed to remaining an attractive investment destination.
Since its founding, the United States has recognized the importance of protecting intellectual property to providing an open, competitive, and innovative economy.  The Constitution of the United States grants to Congress the power “[t]o promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.” In his first State of the Union speech, President George Washington, our first President, called for Congress to encourage the introduction of inventions from abroad and those produced at home.  Within months, the first Congress of the United States passed the Patent Act of 1790, and then the Copyright Act.  Two hundred and twenty-eight years later, in an age of unprecedented creativity and technological advances, the United States continues to place high value on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property.
Committed to Competitive Markets and Free, Fair, and Reciprocal Trade
The United States seeks to work with those Members who are ready and able to negotiate free, fair, and reciprocal trade agreements, with the expectation that participants in these agreements will contribute commensurate with their status in the global economy.  We are committed to promoting fair market competition and trade liberalization around the world.  Countries that share our commitment and that are willing to provide reciprocal opportunities in their home markets can count on us as a partner.
The United States has been putting these words into action, vigorously pursuing bilateral arrangements aimed at promoting more efficient markets and obtaining better trading terms for American workers, farmers, businesses, and ranchers.  In late September, the United States, Mexico, and Canada reached an agreement to modernize NAFTA into a 21stcentury, high-standard agreement.  The three Parties signed the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) in late November.  By addressing market access barriers and modernizing and rebalancing the obligations among the Parties, the agreement will support mutually beneficial trade leading to freer markets, fairer trade, and robust economic growth in North America.  The USMCA will enter into force after it is approved by all three Parties.
In September, the United States and Korea signed final texts reflecting the outcomes of our negotiations to improve the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement. The outcomes focus on improving automobile trade, in addition to other provisions including on investment. Progress on implementation-related issues also was announced, including in the areas of customs.  The modernized provisions will enter into force after completion of applicable procedures by both countries.
This is just the beginning of our ambition.  In October, the U.S. Trade Representative notified Congress that the Administration intends to negotiate three separate trade agreements with Japan, the European Union, and the United Kingdom, seeking to expand trade and investment.  These notifications followed a number of fruitful dialogues with each of these partners.
At the same time, the United States continues to promote mutual accountability and shared ambition as we work with other partners around the world through a variety of trade and investment avenues.  Throughout the review period, the United States continued to engage our trading partners through free trade political and technical committees and councils, through Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Councils, and through other arrangements with non-FTA partners.
The United States also engages with partners at a regional level to develop free, fair, and reciprocal trade and investment opportunities.  I want to use my brief time today to share just a few examples.
In 2017-18, the United States supported the launch of the ASEAN Single Window under the U.S. Agency for International Development’s US-ASEAN Connectivity through Trade and Investment program. Looking forward, the United States and ASEAN have decided to work together on agricultural biotechnology regulatory cooperation and to continue discussions on proposals regarding automotive standards and electronic payment services.  We recognize that in the digital economy, electronic payment services are critical to facilitate global digital trade, to promote open and competitive markets that welcome foreign and domestic suppliers on a level playing field, and to drive development, innovation, and economic growth.
This understanding of the growing importance of digital trade informs our work in APEC, where we are leading the effort to adopt building blocks to facilitate global trade, including principles related to enabling cross-border data flows and preventing forced localization of data. We also welcome APEC’s continuing efforts to strengthen the implementation of good regulatory practices. We look forward to working with APEC’s next host country, Chile, to advance these priorities in 2019.
The United States continues to work with our African partners to advance our long-term commitment to Africa’s growth and prosperity. Since 2000, the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) has been the cornerstone of U.S.-African engagement on trade and investment. By providing duty-free entry into the United States for almost all products of beneficiary countries, AGOA has helped to expand and diversify two-way trade between the United States and sub-Saharan Africa, and it has helped to foster an improved business environment in many sub-Saharan African countries.  The United States-Sub-Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum, informally known as the “AGOA Forum,” is an annual ministerial-level meeting with AGOA-eligible countries. In July 2018, the U.S. Trade Representative led the USG delegation to the AGOA Forum, this time held in Washington, DC.  Given AGOA’s scheduled expiration in 2025, the U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, laid out the Administration’s rationale and vision to move beyond AGOA and pursue a free trade agreement with an African country that could serve as a model for other U.S. trade agreements in the region.  He and other U.S. participants met with numerous African senior officials, including trade ministers, leaders of African regional economic organizations, and representatives of the African and American private sectors and civil society to discuss strategies for advancing trade, investment, and economic development in Africa.
The United States in the Multilateral System
Madam Chair, the United States traces our leadership role in the multilateral system back more than seven decades, to the signing of the GATT.  During the Uruguay Round, we were a key architect of the WTO.  In the Marrakesh Declaration, we joined other original Members to confirm the principle that Members were to participate in a multilateral system, “based upon open, market-oriented policies.”
Since 1995, the United States has been deeply engaged in every facet of work at the WTO.  And today we still are. My colleagues at the table are deeply engaged with me at the WTO.  Time and time again, we have provided the leadership and political will necessary to advance the goal of using the WTO to create and enforce rules that lead to more efficient markets, reciprocal benefits, and greater wealth for our citizens. We are steadfastly committed to working with all WTO Members who share this goal.
However, we must recognize that the WTO that we helped create, and the WTO we seek, is in key respects not the WTO we have today.  This is not a new or sudden development.  For years, the United States and many others in this room have voiced concerns with the WTO system and the direction in which it has been headed.
We discussed several of these concerns in the U.S. Government Report for this meeting. And I will elaborate on them briefly.
First, the WTO dispute settlement system has strayed far from the system agreed to by Members. It has appropriated to itself powers that the WTO Members never intended to give it.  This includes where panels or the Appellate Body have, through their findings, sought to add or diminish WTO rights and obligations of Members in a broad range of areas. The United States has grown increasingly concerned with the activist approach and overreaching of the Appellate Body on procedural issues, interpretative approach, and substantive interpretations. These approaches and findings do not respect WTO rules as written and agreed by the United States and other WTO Members.
Second, the WTO is not well equipped to handle the fundamental challenge posed by China, which continues to embrace a state-led, mercantilist approach to the economy and trade. China pursues an array of non-market industrial policies and other unfair competitive practices aimed at promoting and supporting its domestic industries while simultaneously restricting, taking advantage of, discriminating against, or otherwise creating disadvantages for foreign companies and their goods and services.  From forced technology transfer to the creation and maintenance of severe excess industrial capacity to a heavily skewed playing field in China, the results of China’s approach are causing serious harm to the United States and many other WTO Members and their companies and workers.  Simply put, China’s actions are incompatible with the open, market-based approach expressly envisioned and followed by other WTO members and contrary to the fundamental principles of this organization and its agreements.
Third, the WTO’s negotiating arm has been unable to reach agreements that are of critical importance in the modern economy.Previous negotiations were undermined by certain Members’ repeated unwillingness to make contributions commensurate with their role in the global economy, and by these Members’ success in leveraging the WTO’s flawed approach to developing-Member status.
Fourth, certain Members’ persistent lack of transparency, including their unwillingness to meet their notification obligations, have undermined Members’ work in the WTO committees to monitor compliance with WTO obligations. Their lack of transparency has also damaged Members’ ability to identify opportunities to negotiate new rules aimed at raising market efficiency, generating reciprocal benefits, and increasing wealth.
The United States is not simply raising concerns; we are taking important steps to address them.  To date, the application of our trade laws to address injurious and unfair competition has perhaps garnered the most public attention. For example, the United States’ investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 determined in March 2018 that the acts, policies, and practices of China related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation covered in the investigation are unreasonable or discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.
Some are criticizing the United States’ approach as unilateralist and protectionist.  In our view, this is a serious and perhaps purposeful misread of our actions and intentions.  In the case of the Section 301 investigation, the facts demonstrating forced technology transfer were quite clear, and the United States had a stark choice: either take action to protect itself against the serious, ongoing harm from China’s policies and practices or accept that this harm will continue because the WTO does not provide the necessary disciplines or remedies. We would prefer being able to use the WTO, but China’s trade regime increasingly is not compatible with it.
The United States is committed to working with like-minded Members to address our concerns with the functioning of the WTO.  Reforms are necessary for the continued viability of the institution.  Our long record of leadership at the WTO makes us clear-eyed about the challenges ahead.  In our assessment, Members are in the early stages of grappling with our collective failure to confront problems that have been growing for years.
The United States will be at the forefront of these efforts.  We were the first Member to put forward a concrete proposal for WTO reform, in November 2017, with our proposal aimed at improving Members’ compliance with their notification obligations. In November 2018, Argentina, Australia, Chinese Taipei, Costa Rica, the EU, Japan, and the United States presented an updated transparency and notification proposal for consideration in the WTO Council on Trade in Goods.  We stand ready to work with our co-sponsors and other Members to advance this proposal.
We are pursuing reform-related discussions in other configurations, as well.  In December 2017, Ambassador Lighthizer and the trade ministers of Japan and the EU announced new trilateral cooperationto undertake measures to combat the non-market-oriented policies of third countries.  Following Ministerial meetings in March, May, and September 2018, the Ministers confirmed their shared objective to address non-market-oriented policies and practices, their shared view that no country should require or pressure technology transfer from foreign companies to domestic companies, and the need to deepen and accelerate discussions regarding possible new rules on industrial subsidies and state-owned entities. The Ministers further agreed to deepen cooperation and exchange of information, including with other like-minded partners, to find effective means to address trade-distorting policies of third countries.
We are also giving serious thought to the problem of differentiation.  The assertion by a number of Members that developing country status is “self-declared” has severely damaged the negotiating arm of the WTO by creating resistance to differentiation among Members. Export powerhouses and other relatively advanced Members demand the same flexibilities as much smaller, poorer Members, creating asymmetries that ensure that ambition levels in WTO negotiations remain far too weak to achieve meaningful outcomes.
Looking Forward
Madam Chair, Ambassadors, distinguished representatives: the seriousness of our message today, once again, underscores the seriousness of the moment.  The problems that have led us to this moment did not arise overnight, and they will not be resolved easily.  They will require leadership and a steadfast commitment to the principles which brought us here many years ago.  The United States will work with any Member that is committed, as we are, to making good on an old promise – to build a system based on open, market-oriented policies.
We look forward to participating with you in our exchange over the next few days, and we thank you for your interest and attention.


Ambassador Shea’s Statement at the WTO Trade Policy Review of the United States – Day 2
12/19/2018
WTO Trade Policy Review of the United States
Day 2
STATEMENT OF DENNIS SHEA,
U.S. PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE
Geneva, 19 December 2018
Thank you and good morning, everyone.
Thank you for joining us again today for the continuation of this 14th Trade Policy Review of the United States. We appreciated the observations offered by more than 60 Members on the first day of this review, many of which we found constructive.
This morning I’d like to respond briefly to several themes, and a few comments in particular, that we heard on Monday.
We appreciated the acknowledgement from so many that the United States maintains one of the most open economies in the world.  Our average applied tariff is low and nearly 70 percent of all imports into the United States in 2017 entered duty-free. U.S. service markets are open to foreign providers, and we protect the intellectual property of domestic and foreign innovators and creators alike. Our foreign investment regime is open and predictable. These are hallmarks of stability and openness, as one Member put it.
So, too, is the United States’ standards development system, which is inclusive and transparent, allows broad stakeholder participation, and adheres to the principles contained in the WTO TBT Committee Decision on International Standards. We strongly encourage all Members, particularly our friends in Europe, to follow the TBT Committee Decision. 
We were reminded by many Members that the United States is a key engine for global economic growth. The United States is in its ninth consecutive year of economic expansion, and, in 2017, we were the recipient of 19 percent of global goods and services exports, excluding U.S. exports and intra-EU exports. Further, 78 countries had the United States as their first, second, or third largest export partner.
We were gratified by Members’ widespread recognition of our active and indispensable engagement in every facet of the WTO. Many Members noted U.S. leadership on a proposal to ensure that Members fulfill their notification obligations. We are encouraged that they recognize the problem and share our objectives, and we look forward to working with our co-sponsors and other Members on this important element of WTO reform. We also welcomed Members’ recognition of the importance of our technical assistance and capacity building in implementing the Trade Facilitation Agreement.
We appreciate the warm words from a number of Members regarding our trade preference programs and the many forms of assistance provided by the United States, from trade-related capacity-building before and after WTO accession, to blood and treasure, as one Member said, in the hope of a better future. The United States undertakes these efforts because we believe in the benefits that can accrue to Members from fully implementing the global trade rules as they were negotiated by Members.
Not surprisingly, we disagree strongly with certain assertions and the premise of some comments on Monday.
We heard from one Member that the United States is at the epicenter of the deep crisis in the multilateral trading system. This Member’s explanation revealed a misread of the crisis and its root causes. The crisis is caused by the fundamental incompatibility of China’s trade-distorting, non-market economic regime with an open, transparent, and predictable international trading system. It is compounded by Members’ collective failure over many years to address this problem.
In one respect, the United States is at the epicenter of the crisis – we are, once again, embracing the burdens of leadership to respond to the crisis. This is necessary so that stability and openness can be preserved.
A number of Members raised concerns about increased usage of U.S. trade remedy procedures during the period under review. From our perspective, these Members confound the remedy with a deeper and more worrying problem that the remedy aims to address.  Injurious dumping and subsidization—and the effects that the increasing prevalence of these practices have on the trading system—are problems that should concern us all. 
It is important to maintain some perspective. While the U.S. accounted for 17% of all initiated antidumping investigations during the period of review, 27% of all such investigations—more than one quarter—were initiated in response to trade from one Member - China. 
To the extent Members are concerned about the trends they observe, they should consider what is actually causing the trend – state-led, mercantilist activity.
On Monday, China quoted the movie Spiderman, stating “With great power comes great responsibility.” China noted that recent measures taken by the United States suggest we are acting irresponsibly. China also opined that the United States needs to implement domestic initiatives to help our people adjust to economic globalization.
Strip away the jargon, and here is China’s argument: China will force technology transfer, and outright steal it when it sees fit, to become the preeminent producer, particularly in strategic industries. China will subsidize and maintain excess capacity in multiple industries, forcing producers in other economies to shut down. China will dump its products on our markets, claiming that all is okay because our consumers pay a little less. If the United States musters a response, we are abusing our power and acting irresponsibly. Rather, we should resign ourselves to nursing the wounds inflicted on our citizens.
This is not acceptable.
We also note the deep irony in China’s reference to power and responsibility. China—the world’s largest exporter and an economic heavyweight, insists on being treated in the WTO like a much poorer Member while maintaining a regime that is fundamentally incompatible with the rules and principles of this organization. China apparently believes its power comes with little or no responsibility.  Rest assured, this is a conversation that we will pick up in the near future.
Madam Chair, the United States approaches the end of this review with sincere appreciation for the serious engagement of Members during this week, and we are grateful for the role of the Secretariat, the Chair, and our discussant in shepherding us through this process.
In closing, I would like to take the opportunity to wish all my colleagues a joyous and restful holiday season.
Thank you.


Joint Statement on Signing the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance
12/19/2018
Washington – The United States and the United Kingdom (UK) signed the Bilateral Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (U.S.-UK Covered Agreement) on December 18, 2018. The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement is an important step in providing regulatory certainty and market continuity as the United Kingdom prepares to leave the European Union (EU). 
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement, like the covered agreement with the EU, will benefit the U.S. and UK economies and consumers by reducing burdens on insurers and reinsurers while maintaining prudential standards and will enable customers to protect themselves more efficiently against risks.  At the same time, it affirms the U.S. state-based system of insurance regulation while increasing growth opportunities for insurers in both the United States and United Kingdom.
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement will ensure continuity for UK insurers and reinsurers accessing the U.S. market consistent with the terms of the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement.  In order to achieve this continuity, the Parties plan to bring the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement into force once the UK is no longer subject to the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement and domestic processes are complete.
Click here to view the text of the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement and here for the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement Letters to Congress.


Joint Statement on Signing the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance
12/19/2018
Washington – The United States and the United Kingdom (UK) signed the Bilateral Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (U.S.-UK Covered Agreement) on December 18, 2018. The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement is an important step in providing regulatory certainty and market continuity as the United Kingdom prepares to leave the European Union (EU). 
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement, like the covered agreement with the EU, will benefit the U.S. and UK economies and consumers by reducing burdens on insurers and reinsurers while maintaining prudential standards and will enable customers to protect themselves more efficiently against risks.  At the same time, it affirms the U.S. state-based system of insurance regulation while increasing growth opportunities for insurers in both the United States and United Kingdom.
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement will ensure continuity for UK insurers and reinsurers accessing the U.S. market consistent with the terms of the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement.  In order to achieve this continuity, the Parties plan to bring the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement into force once the UK is no longer subject to the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement and domestic processes are complete.
Click here to view the text of the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement and here for the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement Letters to Congress.


Treasury, USTR Sign Bilateral Agreement with the United Kingdom on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance
12/19/2018
Washington – The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative signed the Bilateral Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (U.S.-UK Covered Agreement) on December 18, 2018. Consistent with steps taken when this Administration signed the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement in 2017, the Administration is also issuing a U.S. policy statement regarding implementation of the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement. 
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement, negotiated and concluded through a process involving significant engagement with U.S. stakeholders and the state regulatory community, is an important step in maintaining regulatory certainty and market continuity as the United Kingdom prepares to leave the European Union (EU). The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement also is an important step in affirming the competitiveness of U.S. companies in domestic and foreign markets and making regulations more efficient, effective, and appropriately tailored. 
“We look forward to working with the UK to continue to deepen our bilateral regulatory cooperation with a view to the promotion of financial stability, investor protection, and fair, orderly, and efficient markets post Brexit,” said Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin. “By building on the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement signed by this administration in 2017, the Agreement with the UK will keep in place important benefits for the United States, its insurance industry, and U.S. policyholders.” 
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said, “We are pleased to work with the United Kingdom to ensure continuity and to address barriers in the insurance sector. Our efforts will allow U.S. insurers and reinsurers to maximize business opportunities and cut red tape for their cross-border operations.”
The U.S.-UK Covered Agreement, like the covered agreement with the EU, also benefits the U.S. economy and consumers by affirming the U.S. state-based system of insurance regulation and increasing growth opportunities for U.S. insurers.
Click here to view the text of the U.S.-UK Covered Agreement and here for the text of the U.S. Policy Statement.


USTR Grants First Round of Product Exclusions
12/21/2018
On Dec. 21, 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative submitted for publication a Federal Register Notice to modify the Harmonized Tariff Schedule in order to grant nearly 1,000 product exclusion requests from tariffs that went into effect on July 6 on approximately $34 billion worth of imports from China. Additional decisions on product exclusion requests will be announced periodically.  To view the Federal Register Notice, click here. To view the updated index of product exclusions requests, click here.


2019年
Statement Regarding the United States Delegation to China
01/04/2019
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced the members of an official delegation from the United States to China to discuss the trade relationship between the two countries beginning Monday, January 7, 2019.  
Members of the United States Delegation:
Ambassador Jeffrey Gerrish, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative
Ambassador Gregg Doud, USTR Chief Agricultural Negotiator
Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs Ted McKinney, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade Gilbert B. Kaplan, U.S. Department of Commerce
Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy Steven Winberg, U.S. Department of Energy
Under Secretary for International Affairs David Malpass, U.S. Department of the Treasury 
The delegation will be accompanied by senior officials from the White House, USTR, and the U.S. departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, State, and Treasury.


USTR Requests First-Ever Environment Consultations Under the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA)
01/04/2019
Washington, DC - The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today requested consultations with Peru under the Environment Chapter of the United States – Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA).  Through these environment consultations, the United States and Peru will discuss and attempt to resolve concerns regarding a recent Peruvian action to move the Agency for the Supervision of Forest Resources and Wildlife (OSINFOR) from its position as a separate and independent agency to a subordinate position within Peru’s Ministry of Environment (MINAM).  This is the first request for consultations made under the PTPA.
The PTPA’s Annex on Forest Sector Governance states: “OSINFOR shall be an independent and separate agency and its mandate shall include supervision of verification of all timber concessions and permits.”  Peru’s Supreme Decree 122-2018-PCM, published on December 14, 2018, appears to conflict with this provision.
“By taking this unprecedented step, the Trump Administration is making clear that it takes monitoring and enforcement of U.S. trade agreements seriously, including obligations to strengthen forest sector governance,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer. “Since its creation in 2008, OSINFOR has played a critical role in Peru detecting and combatting illegal logging, and we are gravely concerned that its independence is threatened.  I urge Peru to abide by its obligations and restore OSINFOR’s separateness and independence, as called for in the PTPA.” 
Background:
OSINFOR was established in 2008 as an independent forest oversight body responsible at the national level for monitoring and enforcing the sustainable use and conservation of forest and wildlife resources in Peru, including by conducting post-harvest inspections of forestry titles and by sanctioning those that harvest timber illegally.  The United States sought and achieved in the PTPA an obligation for OSINFOR to be a separate and independent agency to ensure a strong and independent body with sufficient resources to safeguard Peru’s forest oversight from undue political influence.
Article 18.12.1 of the PTPA (Environment Consultations and Panel Procedure) provides that a Party may request consultations with another Party regarding any matter arising under the Environment Chapter (Chapter 18), including the Annex on Forest Sector Governance (Annex 18.3.4).   Article 18.12 of the PTPA calls for the consultations to begin promptly after a request has been delivered, and provides the Parties 60 days to resolve the matter before the complaining Party may request separate consultations under Article 21.4 (Consultations) or a meeting of the PTPA Commission under Article 21.5 (Intervention of the Commission), as provided for in Chapter 21 (Dispute Settlement).  USTR will continue to confer with Members of Congress, interested agencies, and stakeholders on the results of these consultations before considering any further actions.
Click here to read the PTPA Environment Chapter and Forest Annex.
Click here to read more about efforts to implement and enforce the PTPA Environment Chapter and Forest Annex. 


Statement on the United States Trade Delegation’s Meetings in Beijing
01/09/2019
On January 7-9, an official delegation from the United States led by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish held meetings in Beijing with Chinese officials to discuss ways to achieve fairness, reciprocity, and balance in trade relations between our two countries. The officials also discussed the need for any agreement to provide for complete implementation subject to ongoing verification and effective enforcement. The meetings were held as part of the agreement reached by President Donald J. Trump and President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires to engage in 90 days of negotiations with a view to achieving needed structural changes in China with respect to forced technology transfer, intellectual property protection, non-tariff barriers, cyber intrusions and cyber theft of trade secrets for commercial purposes, services, and agriculture.  The talks also focused on China’s pledge to purchase a substantial amount of agricultural, energy, manufactured goods, and other products and services from the United States.  The United States officials conveyed President Trump’s commitment to addressing our persistent trade deficit and to resolving structural issues in order to improve trade between our countries.
The delegation will now report back to receive guidance on the next steps.


Joint Statement of the Trilateral Meeting of the Trade Ministers of the European Union, Japan and the United States
01/09/2019
Washington, D.C., 9 January 2019
Mrs. Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, and Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative, met in Washington, D.C. on 9 January 2019.
The Ministers advanced discussions on their shared objective to address non market-oriented policies and practices of third countries that lead to severe overcapacity, create unfair competitive conditions for their workers and businesses, hinder the development and use of innovative technologies, and undermine the proper functioning of international trade, including where existing rules are not effective.
They reiterated their concerns, reviewed ongoing work, and agreed to deepen their cooperation in all areas covered by the Ministerial Statements issued in New York and Paris, including nonmarket policies and practices, market-oriented conditions, industrial subsidies and state-owned enterprises, forced technology transfer policies and practices, WTO reform and digital trade and e-commerce.
In today's meeting, the Ministers discussed in particular:
On concerns with non-market oriented policies and practices, Ministers took stock of the intensification of the exchange of information between them, the identification of additional criteria indicating market-oriented conditions, and confirmed that market-oriented conditions are fundamental to a fair, mutually advantageous global trading system and that their citizens and businesses operate under market-oriented conditions. The Ministers also confirmed their commitment to continue working together to maintain the effectiveness of existing WTO disciplines, including through ongoing WTO disputes.
On industrial subsidies, Ministers instructed their staff to finalize trilateral text-based work in this area by spring in order to engage other key WTO Members after that, as appropriate.
In the area of forced technology transfers, Ministers confirmed their agreement to cooperate on enforcement, on the development of new rules, on investment review for national security purposes and on export controls and further take stock of this cooperation by spring.
On the reform of the WTO, the three partners submitted a joint transparency and notification proposal to the Council for Trade in Goods last November with other co-sponsors, and the Ministers agreed to intensify engagement with other trading partners to advance this proposal. They confirmed their agreement to work towards strengthening the regular committees' activities. They also reiterated their call on advanced WTO Members claiming developing country status to undertake full commitments in ongoing and future WTO negotiations.
The Ministers reaffirmed the importance of cooperating in facilitating digital trade and the growth of the digital economy and to enhance business environments through the promotion of data security. The Ministers confirmed their support for the timely initiation of WTO negotiations on trade-related aspects of electronic commerce that seek to achieve a high standard agreement with the participation of as many WTO members as possible.
The Ministers look forward to further cooperation for the G20 Ministerial Meeting on Trade and the Digital Economy under the Japanese G20 Presidency.


Statements by the United States at the January 11, 2019, DSB Meeting
01/11/2019
Statements by the United States at the Meeting of the WTO Dispute Settlement Body as delivered in Geneva on January 11, 2019.
Read the full statements


USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce
01/25/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement regarding the Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce agreed to and issued by 76 World Trade Organization (WTO) Members, including the United States, on the margins of the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland:
“The United States is pleased that the initial exploratory work on digital trade issues at the WTO in 2018 was productive.  The digital economy is a powerful force for global economic growth.  The United States is committed to seeking a high-standard agreement that creates strong, market-based rules in this area and reduces the barriers around the world that threaten to undermine the growth of the digital economy, including restrictions on cross-border data flows and data localization requirements.  The United States strongly believes that to be successful these talks must lead to an ambitious, high-standard agreement that is enforceable and has the same obligations for all participants.”
 
Text of Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce


Public Hearing on Negotiating Objectives for U.S.-UK Trade Agreement
01/28/2019
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold a public hearing from 9:30 AM – 4:00 PM EST on January 29, 2019 regarding a proposed United States-United Kingdom Trade Agreement, including U.S. interests and priorities in order to develop U.S. negotiating positions.
The hearing will take place in the USTR Annex Building, Rooms 1 and 2, 1724 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20006.
The hearing is a part of the public notice and comment process following USTR’s notification to Congress on October 16, 2018 of the Trump Administration’s intention to enter into negotiations with the United Kingdom for a U.S.-UK Trade Agreement, after the UK has exited the European Union.
The Federal Register notice publishing the request for comments on negotiating objectives can be viewed here.
Click here to view a schedule of witnesses.
NOTES: All media and attendees should note that the hearing is on the record but no external cameras or video recording will be allowed in the hearing room. A full transcript of the hearing will be posted on USTR.gov and the public docket on Regulations.gov. 


USTR Statement on the EU’s Consultation Request at the WTO
01/29/2019
Washington, DC – Today, the United States received from the European Union (EU) a request for consultations at the World Trade Organization challenging the imposition of U.S. antidumping and countervailing duties on Spanish olives. 
The request grows out of an investigation where the U.S. Department of Commerce found that olives from Spain were unfairly dumped in the United States at rates ranging from 16.88 to 25.50 percent. The U.S. Department of Commerce also found that olives from Spain were unfairly subsidized at rates ranging from 7.52 to 27.02 percent.
The U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) – an independent, bipartisan body – found that the U.S. olive industry was materially injured by unfairly traded Spanish imports. The USITC’s final determination includes evidence that Spanish producers engaged in significant price underselling during the period examined, particularly when import values were increasing, resulting in loss of market share to the most important sector for the U.S. industry. The USITC’s record also indicates that the actions of Spanish producers resulted in significant job losses and declines in profitability for the U.S. industry.
In short, the EU is asking the WTO to intervene in a situation where U.S. producers suffered harm due to unfair trade. Responding to the EU’s filing, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said, “The purpose of the global trading system is to promote market-efficient outcomes that reward hard work and innovation. It would be unfortunate if the WTO were to encourage the type of unfair and market-distorting trade that was at issue in this case. We believe that the EU’s case is without merit, and we intend to fight it very aggressively.”


USTR Signs Wine and Distilled Spirits Continuity Agreements with the UK
02/04/2019
Washington, D.C. – On January 31, 2019, Ambassador Gregg Doud, USTR Chief Agricultural Negotiator, and Ambassador Kim Darroch, United Kingdom (UK) Ambassador to the United States, signed two agreements covering wine and distilled spirits today to ensure there is no disruption in trade of these products between the United States and the UK when the UK leaves the European Union (EU). Currently the United States has agreements on wine and distilled spirits with the European Union which cover trade with the UK by virtue of its membership in the EU.
Background
The U.S.-UK agreement on trade in wine, which includes commitments regarding wine-making practices and labeling requirements, will ensure market continuity for bilateral wine trade. The UK was the fourth largest export market for U.S. wine products in 2017, with a value of $227 million. 
The U.S.-UK agreement on the mutual recognition of certain distilled spirits/spirits drinks will continue the recognition of the names Scotch whisky, Irish whisky, Tennessee whisky, Bourbon whisky, and Bourbon in bilateral trade following the UK’s exit from the EU.  The UK was the top export market for U.S. distilled spirits in 2017, totaling $187 million. 
As part of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group, the United States and the UK are working to ensure commercial continuity for UK and U.S. businesses, workers, and consumers as the UK leaves the EU. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer notified Congress on October 16, 2018 of the Administration’s intent to enter into trade negotiations with the UK once it leaves the EU.
U.S.-UK Agreement on Trade in Wine
U.S.-UK Agreement on Mutual Recognition of Certain Distilled Spirits/Spirits Drinks


USTR Releases 2018 Reports on China’s and Russia’s WTO Compliance
02/04/2019
Washington, DC – As required by law, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today released annual reports assessing China’s and Russia’s implementation of their respective World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments.
China and Russia present unique and serious challenges for members of the WTO and the multilateral trading system, largely because of their failure to embrace the pursuit of open, market-oriented policies, the U.S. Trade Representative said in the annual reports. China became a member of the WTO in 2001 and Russia joined the WTO in 2012.
The complete report on China’s WTO compliance can be found here.
The complete report on Russia’s WTO compliance can be found here


USTR Robert Lighthizer’s Statement on the State of the Union Address
02/05/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement about President Trump’s State of the Union address:
“In his State of the Union address, President Trump outlined a visionary trade agenda that resonates across party lines and will accelerate America’s manufacturing resurgence, expand export opportunities for our farmers, ranchers and small businesses, and promote America’s leadership in today’s digital economy.  The President is confronting China’s unfair trade practices, working to open new trade negotiations with countries around the world, and replacing NAFTA with an innovative, landmark agreement for the 21st century – the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).  This new agreement is a model for all future trade deals.”


USTR Lighthizer Statement on the Women’s Global Development and Prosperity Initiative
02/07/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement on the White House launch of the Women’s Global Development and Prosperity Initiative, led by Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump:
“President Trump continues to lead in creating opportunities for prosperity through economic development and through trade. I applaud Ivanka Trump’s leadership in launching an initiative for empowering women with fair and equitable opportunity in their countries’ economies.  Communities and economies are stronger when women can access their full economic potential.”


USTR Signs Mutual Recognition Agreements with the United Kingdom
02/14/2019
Washington, D.C. – On February 14, 2019, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney and  Ambassador Kim Darroch, United Kingdom (UK) Ambassador to the United States, signed two mutual recognition agreements (MRAs) covering telecom equipment, electro-magnetic compatibility (EMC) for information and communications technology products, pharmaceutical good manufacturing practice (GMP) inspections, and marine equipment. These MRAs with the UK replicate substantive provisions of existing MRAs between the United States and the European Union for these sectors and will ensure that U.S.-UK trade in these product sectors is not disrupted when the UK leaves the European Union. U.S. exports to the UK of products covered by these agreements exceeded $5 billion in 2018.
Background
Framework MRA, including sectoral annexes for Telecom Equipment, EMC for ICT Goods, and Pharmaceutical GMP Inspections: The U.S.-UK Framework MRA provides for continued acceptance of certain conformity assessment results (e.g., product tests, inspections) between U.S. and UK regulators, helping to facilitate U.S.-UK trade in these sectors. The sectoral annex for telecom equipment covers telecommunications terminal equipment, including radio transmitters and information technology equipment. The sectoral annex for EMC covers equipment subject to UK and U.S. radio interference and compatibility requirements, including most electrical and electronic equipment exported to the UK. The sectoral annex for pharmaceuticals allows U.S. and UK regulators to rely on each other's GMP inspections of pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, thereby reducing unnecessary costs and duplicative efforts and allowing the reallocation of regulatory resources to where they are most needed.  
Marine Equipment MRA:  Under the terms of the U.S.-UK Marine Equipment MRA, designated products which comply with U.S. requirements will be accepted for sale in the UK without any additional testing. The MRA’s product scope includes products in three main categories: life-saving equipment (e.g., visual distress signals, marine evacuation systems); fire protection equipment (e.g., fire doors, insulation); and navigational equipment (e.g., compasses, GPS equipment, echo-sounding equipment). 
As part of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group, the United States and the United Kingdom are working to ensure commercial continuity for UK and U.S. businesses, workers, and consumers as the UK leaves the EU. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer notified Congress on October 16, 2018 of the Trump Administration’s intent to enter into trade negotiations with the UK once it leaves the EU.
Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the U.S.-UK
Agreement Between the U.S.-UK on the Mutual Recognition of Certificates of Conformity for Marine Equipment


United States Issues WTO Counter Notification Concerning India’s Market Price Support for Various Pulses
02/15/2019
Washington, DC - U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue today announced that the United States, together with Canada, submitted a counter notification in the World Trade Organization (WTO) Committee on Agriculture (COA) on India’s market price support for five pulses: chickpeas, pigeon peas, black matpe, mung beans, and lentils.
Based on United States/Canadian calculations, it appears that India has substantially underreported its market price support for chickpeas, pigeon peas, black matpe, mung beans, and lentils. When calculated according to WTO Agreement on Agriculture methodology, India’s market price support for each of these pulses far exceeded its WTO allowable levels of trade-distorting domestic support. The United States expects a robust discussion on how India implements and notifies its policies at the next COA meeting, which is scheduled for February 26-27, 2019.
Background:
On February 12, 2019, the United States submitted a counter notification, co-sponsored by Canada, in the WTO COA on India’s market price support for chickpeas, pigeon peas, black matpe, mung beans, and lentils – based on publicly available information. The United States and Canada have identified several areas of potential concern with India’s WTO notification of its market price support for chickpeas, pigeon peas, black matpe, mung beans, and lentils. These include issues with the quantity of production used in market price support calculations, exclusion from India’s notification of information on the total value of production for each category of pulse (information necessary to assess compliance with WTO commitments), issues with currency conversions, and issues regarding the prices used in India’s calculations.
This is the third U.S. COA counter notification regarding another country’s measures.  Previous U.S. counter notifications have addressed India’s market price support for cotton, rice and wheat.  Australia has submitted a counter notification regarding India’s market price support for sugarcane.


Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer to the House Ways and Means Committee
02/27/2019
Washington, DC
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:
Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Brady, distinguished members of the Committee: it is a pleasure to be here today and to discuss this very important issue.
I think at the beginning it is appropriate to take a minute and remind ourselves that with all our pressing problems, we have a very successful economy.  Under President Trump’s leadership we are growing much faster than any G7 nation. We have created millions of new jobs – significantly, to me, 500,000 manufacturing jobs, and we have seen two million people join the workforce – these are people who were not in it before. These are real working people moving from despair to hope and their kids from insecurity to a future. A lot needs to be done, and I salute all members of both parties who are working so diligently on issues of worker training, opioid addiction as well as trade and other issues.
We are here to talk about China.  I agree with those who see our large and growing trade deficit and their unfair trade practices – including technology transfer issues, failure to protect intellectual property, large subsidies, cyber theft of commercial secrets and other problems – as major threats to our economy.  We can compete with anyone in the world but we must have rules – enforced rules – that make sure market outcomes, not state-capitalism and technology theft, determine winners.
President Trump has for years recognized this very serious – and I would say existential – problem, and he is determined to take action to defend our workers, farmers, and ranchers and our economic system.
He directed me to conduct a study under Section 301.  After months of hard work, the President ordered that certain tariffs be put in place.  Because of his insight and grit, we are in a position to deal with this problem for the first time after decades of government inaction.
I would like to note that as with many extremely important issues facing our country, prescience has been bipartisan.  The Speaker was an early, forceful, and foresighted leader on this issue.  I have admired her perception and hard work over the years and have counseled with her regularly in my current position.
I would just like to read something briefly. Faced with the PNTR [Permanent Normal Trade Relations] vote in April of 2000, the Speaker said:
It is incumbent upon all of us in the public and private sectors to work for free and open trade with China that is real. The U.S.-China bilateral WTO agreement, however, is seriously deficient in substance, implementation, and enforcement. This issue is too important for our economy to be based on a pattern of broken promises, not proven performance. China can become a member of the WTO without Congress having to surrender its right to U.S.-China trade review annually. There is no reason why we should permanently surrender that leverage at this time.
I ask: if her position had prevailed, how different would things be right now?  There are many other examples of bipartisan leadership, including a lot of people on this committee and I’m going to get into it and answer the questions if it’s relevant.
Let me close by saying that we have engaged in a very intense, extremely serious, and very specific negotiation with China on crucial structural issues for several months now.  We are making real progress.  If we can complete this effort – and again I say “if” – and can reach a satisfactory solution to the all-important outstanding issue of enforceability as well as some other concerns, we might be able to have an agreement that helps us turn the corner in our economic relationship with China.  Let me be clear: much still needs to be done both before an agreement is reached and, more importantly, after it is reached, if one is reached.
I want to thank all Members for your bipartisan approach on this seminal effort, and I look forward to continuing our work together. I want to say that if this was not a bipartisan view, we would not be having the success that we are having.       
Thank you Mr. Chairman, thank you Ranking Member. I look forward to your questions.


United States Wins WTO Dispute Finding China Provides Excessive Government Support to its Grain Producers
02/28/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced today that a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement panel found that China has provided trade distorting domestic support to its grain producers well in excess of its commitments under WTO rules.  China’s market price support policy artificially raises Chinese prices for grains above market levels, creating incentives for increased Chinese production of agricultural products and reduced imports.
This panel report is a significant victory for U.S. agriculture that will help American farmers compete on a more level playing field. This dispute is the first to challenge China’s agricultural policies that disregard WTO rules and shows that the United States will take whatever steps are necessary to enforce the rules and ensure free and fair trade for U.S. farmers, ranchers, workers, and businesses.
“The United States proved that China for years provided government support for its grain producers far in excess of the levels China agreed to when it joined the WTO.  China’s excessive support limits opportunities for U.S. farmers to export their world-class products to China.  We expect China to quickly come into compliance with its WTO obligations,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.
“We know that America’s farmers and ranchers thrive in a market-oriented, rules-based global economy.  That means all countries must play by the rules, which is why this finding is so important to U.S. agriculture,” said Secretary Perdue.
Background:
In December 2016, USTR requested that the WTO establish a dispute settlement panel to consider whether China provides “market price support” for Indica (long-grain) rice, Japonica (short- and medium-grain) rice, wheat, and corn in excess of China’s domestic support commitments.  Market price support programs are some of the most trade-distorting agricultural policies, and are therefore subject to clear limits under the WTO Agreement on Agriculture and a WTO Member’s specific commitments. Under WTO rules, China may provide non-exempt support up to the de minimis level of 8.5 percent of the value of total production of a particular commodity, a commitment set out in China’s WTO accession agreement.  
The panel report agreed with the United States that China provided domestic support to its agricultural producers in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, well in excess of its WTO commitments. Specifically, the panel found that China had provided support in excess of permitted levels for Indica (long-grain) rice, Japonica (short- and medium-grain) rice, and wheat, in every year.  Each finding individually established that China broke its overall agricultural domestic support commitment for agricultural producers.  For corn, the panel declined to make findings on the support provided to corn in 2012-2015 given that China had apparently changed its program in 2016, just prior to the WTO’s establishment of the panel.        
Compliance with WTO rules will lead to a reduction in the excessive support provided to China’s grains producers and should increase market forces in China, leading to a more level playing field.
Read more about the United States’ challenge, including additional details about how China’s excessive domestic support to its grain producers breach its WTO commitments.


Trump Administration Charts Trade Policy Course More Favorable to American Workers
03/01/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer delivered President Trump’s Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report to Congress today, outlining how the Administration’s trade policies are benefitting American workers and contributing to the strongest economy in decades.
“Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, the United States is pursuing trade policies that are more favorable to American workers,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “In just two years, we have significantly re-written major trade deals with Korea, Mexico, and Canada.  We have undertaken dramatic new enforcement efforts to stop unfair trading practices by China and other countries.  We are aggressively enforcing U.S. trade laws, including by bringing cases under trade agreements, relevant U.S. laws, and at the WTO.  We are ensuring that countries receiving benefits under the GSP program live up to eligibility standards set by Congress.  These actions and many others are contributing to a stronger U.S. economy, which has generated more jobs and higher wages for American workers.”
To continue these economic gains, in 2019 the Trump Administration is urging Congress to approve the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and is launching new trade negotiations with Japan, the European Union, and the United Kingdom.  In addition, the Trump Administration will continue to press China to address long-standing U.S. concerns about unfair trade practices, defend America’s interests at the World Trade Organization, and vigorously enforce U.S. trade laws.
“Our goal is to ensure that hard work and innovation are rewarded, while unfair trade practices and illegal government subsidies are punished,” the report states.
The full report can be viewed here.
A fact sheet can be viewed here.
Background:
Congress requires the U.S. Trade Representative to submit the President’s Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report by March 1 each year.  The Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report were prepared according to guidelines established under the Trade Act of 1974, as amended.


United States Will Terminate GSP Designation of India and Turkey
03/04/2019
Washington, D.C. – At the direction of President Donald J. Trump, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced today that the United States intends to terminate India’s and Turkey’s designations as beneficiary developing countries under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program because they no longer comply with the statutory eligibility criteria. 
India’s termination from GSP follows its failure to provide the United States with assurances that it will provide equitable and reasonable access to its markets in numerous sectors.  Turkey’s termination from GSP follows a finding that it is sufficiently economically developed and should no longer benefit from preferential market access to the United States market.
By statute, these changes may not take effect until at least 60 days after the notifications to Congress and the governments of India and Turkey, and will be enacted by a Presidential Proclamation.
Background
Under the United States GSP program, certain products can enter the United States duty-free if beneficiary developing countries meet the eligibility criteria established by Congress.  GSP criteria include, among others, respecting arbitral awards in favor of United States citizens or corporations, combating child labor, respecting internationally recognized worker rights, providing adequate and effective intellectual property protection, and providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access.  Countries can also be graduated from the GSP program depending on factors related to economic development.
India
The United States launched an eligibility review of India’s compliance with the GSP market access criterion in April 2018.  India has implemented a wide array of trade barriers that create serious negative effects on United States commerce.  Despite intensive engagement, India has failed to take the necessary steps to meet the GSP criterion. 
Turkey
The United States designated Turkey as a GSP beneficiary developing country in 1975.  An increase in Gross National Income (GNI) per capita, declining poverty rates, and export diversification, by trading partner and by sector, are evidence of Turkey’s higher level of economic development.   
For more information on GSP, visit the USTR website here.


Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer to the Senate Finance Committee
03/12/2019
Washington, DC
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:                                                                                                                                                                                 
Chairman Grassley, Ranking Member Wyden, distinguished members of the committee: It’s a pleasure to be here today. I should begin with saying that I am inspired by and agree almost completely with both your statement, Mr. Chairman, and the Ranking Member’s statement. I think they summarized and make in many ways unnecessary my own statement. Nonetheless, I will read it.
Before I get into talking about the WTO, I would like to note that under President Trump’s leadership, U.S. trade has been surging from 2016 to 2018; total exports have grown by 12.8 percent.  During that same time, imports grew by 14.8 percent.  Last year, we exported almost $2.5 trillion worth of goods and services.
Further, last year alone, we created 264,000 manufacturing jobs – the highest figure in 21 years. And our economy is growing at a rate faster – substantially faster – than any other country in the G-7. 
As you all know, we’ve had a very busy trade agenda. We renegotiated KORUS. We’ve been working with Congress on the newly-renegotiated USMCA agreement. We are in discussions with Europe, Japan, the United Kingdom, and several other countries.
In addition, we have been very active at the WTO. We work closely with the very-able Director-General, Roberto Azevedo, and we are busy on the various standing committees that do the actual day-to-day work of the organization. The WTO is a very important organization, as you say, but we believe it has significant deficiencies.  
First, over the last 20 years, it has migrated from a negotiation forum to a litigation forum. This development has unfortunate consequences. Developing new trade agreements has been stifled, and the commitment to the organization has been undermined.
Second, many countries have very high “bound” tariffs and other barriers, and it is difficult to see how pressure can be created to get them to reduce either.  
Third, many members have gotten into the habit of not living up to their basic obligations. The requirements for subsidy notification by members is often ignored, and numerous transparency obligations go unfulfilled on a regular basis. Another problem is the anomaly that many members self-declare themselves to be developing countries even though they are among, in many cases, the richest in the world.  
Fourth, the dispute settlement process is in need of reform. We have an Appellate Body that often does not follow its own rules. The Administration has complained about this, as have its previous administrations. I have some quotes and the like; I’ll do it another time. In spite of these challenges, the Administration is working diligently to jump-start new negotiations in the areas of digital trade, fishing subsidies, and other areas. 
We look forward to working with the Committee to solve these and other very important trade issues.


USTR Requests First-Ever Consultations Under the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS)
03/15/2019
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today requested the first ever consultations with the Republic of Korea under the chapter on Competition-Related Matters (Chapter 16) of the United States-Republic of Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS).  Through these consultations, the United States will attempt to resolve concerns regarding procedures in competition hearings held by the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC).  Some of these KFTC hearings have denied U.S. parties certain rights, including the opportunity to review and rebut the evidence against them.  Denial of this fundamental right undermines their ability to defend themselves.
At issue is Korea’s non-compliance with KORUS Article 16.1.3, which states, in relevant part, that a party in an administrative hearing related to competition must “have a reasonable opportunity to... review and rebut the evidence and any other collected information on which the determination may be based.”  Following extensive efforts to resolve this concern, USTR is requesting consultations at this time because recently drafted amendments to Korea’s “Monopoly Regulations and Fair Trade Act” fail to address U.S. concerns that KFTC hearings continue to deny U.S. firms due process rights under the KORUS agreement that are necessary to secure a fair competition hearing in Korea.
Background:
The United States has worked intensively with Korea to address issues related to opaque KFTC hearing procedures regarding a respondent’s lack of access to evidence, including evidence used to bring allegations against it.  USTR held multiple meetings with Korean counterparts, exchanged letters with them, and sent formal comments conveying the United States’ recommendations to Korea.  Although Korea received the United States’ concerns and recommendations, the Korean Government’s proposed changes to access to evidence procedures in KFTC hearings, reflected in draft amendments to the “Monopoly Regulations and Fair Trade Act,” do not rectify the problem, address the United States’ concerns, or comply with KORUS obligations.  USTR seeks changes from Korea necessary to meet the KORUS obligation while protecting business confidential information and other appropriate materials from disclosure to third parties.
Click here to read the KORUS Competition Chapter.


USTR Statement on USMCA and Drug Prices
03/25/2019
The Trump Administration is committed to lowering drug prices for all Americans. It is pursuing this goal through a multifaceted approach led by the Department of Health and Human Services. The Administration also realizes that it must take into account the need for protection of intellectual property for pharmaceuticals and other American innovative industries. In trade negotiations we generally try to encourage other countries to adopt U.S. standards. 
It is important to note that nothing in the newly negotiated USMCA will require changing U.S. laws on pharmaceutical intellectual property rights or lead to higher prices on drugs for U.S. consumers. We look forward to working with Congress on these and other issues in our trade agreement. 


WTO Rejects Claims That U.S. Provides Subsidies Comparable to Massive EU Aircraft Subsidies
03/28/2019
In Major Win for the United States, WTO Appellate Report Agrees with Compliance Panel That Finds Only One WTO-Inconsistent State Subsidy
Washington, DC – The World Trade Organization (WTO) today released an appellate report rejecting arguments by the European Union (EU) that the U.S. federal and state programs gave more than $10 billion in subsidies to Boeing large civil aircraft.
In 2017, a WTO compliance panel rejected EU arguments that 29 state and federal programs allegedly conferred $10.4 billion in subsidies to Boeing over six years.  The panel found only one program, a Washington state tax measure worth an average annual value of approximately $100 million from 2013-2015, to be WTO-inconsistent.  The EU filed an appeal arguing that the panel should have found against the United States on more of the EU claims.  The compliance appellate report today confirms that the only WTO-inconsistent program is that Washington state tax measure.
These findings stand in sharp contrast to the compliance appellate report issued last year in the U.S. challenge to EU subsidies to Airbus, which found the EU continued acting contrary to WTO rules in providing $9 billion in subsidized financing for Airbus to launch its two largest aircraft, the A380 and A350 XWB.  A WTO arbitrator is currently evaluating the U.S request to impose approximately $11 billion in annual countermeasures in response to the damaging trade effects of the EU subsidies.
“For years, European governments have provided massive subsidies to Airbus that dwarf any U.S. subsidies to Boeing,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “This report confirms what every other WTO report on these issues has found: the United States does not provide support even remotely comparable to the exceptionally large and harmful EU subsidies to Airbus. It is long past time for the EU to stop their subsidies and let our world-class aircraft manufacturers compete on a truly level playing field.”
Background
After many years of seeking unsuccessfully to convince the EU and four of its member States (France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom) to cease their subsidization of Airbus, in 2004 the United States brought a WTO challenge to EU subsidies.  The EU responded by challenging what it claimed were even larger subsidies to Boeing by the United States. 
Two separate WTO panels addressed the claims brought by the United States and the EU, respectively. The two processes resulted in two very different sets of WTO findings and subsequent respondent actions.  
The U.S. Claims Against the EU
In 2011, the WTO found that the EU provided Airbus $17 billion in subsidized financing from 1968 to 2006, and that European “launch aid” subsidies breached WTO rules because they were instrumental in permitting Airbus to launch every model of its large civil aircraft, causing Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and to lose market share throughout the world. 
In response, the EU removed two minor subsidies, but left most of them unchanged.  The EU also granted Airbus more than $5 billion in new subsidized “launch aid” financing for the A350 XWB.  The United States filed a complaint in March 2012 alleging that the EU not only had failed to comply with the WTO’s findings but had further breached WTO rules through the new subsidized financing for the A350 XWB. 
The WTO established a compliance panel to evaluate that question, leading to an appellate report issued in May 2017 finding that EU subsidies to high-value, twin-aisle aircraft have caused serious prejudice to U.S. interests.  The report found that billions of dollars in launch aid to the A350 XWB is causing significant lost sales of Boeing 787 aircraft.  The report found that subsidies to the A380 continue to cause significant lost sales of Boeing 747 aircraft, as well as impedance of exports of Boeing very large aircraft to the EU, Australia, China, Korea, Singapore, and UAE markets.  
Based on the appellate report, the United States requested authority to impose countermeasures worth $11.2 billion per year, commensurate with the adverse effects caused by EU subsidies.  The EU challenged that estimate, and a WTO arbitrator is currently evaluating those claims.
The EU Claims Against the United States
The report issued today has its origins in the EU’s original 2004 case alleging the U.S. provided unlawful subsidies to Boeing.  In that case, the WTO found that the United States provided Boeing with $3.2-4.3 billion in subsidized research and development funding and income tax benefits, with far more limited market effects than the EU’s subsidies to Airbus.
In response to the WTO’s findings, the United States modified the research and development funding and revoked the income tax benefit to remove any adverse effects to the EU.  The EU then filed a complaint in October 2012 alleging that the United States failed to comply with the findings against it.  The WTO established a compliance panel to evaluate that question, resulting in the report issued in June 2017, which rejected 28 of 29 EU claims.  Today’s appellate report confirms that finding.


USTR Releases 2019 National Trade Estimate Report
03/29/2019
Report Underscores Importance of the Administration’s Fair and Reciprocal Trade Policy for U.S. Exporters
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today released the 2019 National Trade Estimate (NTE), an annual report on the status of foreign trade and investment barriers to American exports around the world.
The findings of the 2019 NTE underscore the President’s 2019 Trade Policy Agenda priority for aggressively enforcing U.S. trade law and defending U.S. trade interests around the world. 
To view the 2019 National Trade Estimate, click here.
Background:
The NTE is the U.S. government’s major annual report on the barriers to trade, investment, and services that American exporters and other businesses and their workers encounter around the world. The report is required to be published each year by March 31 and is submitted to the President and Congress.  The USTR works closely with other government agencies and U.S. embassies to prepare the NTE.
Fact Sheets:
For a fact sheet on the major developments in the 2019 NTE, click here.
For a fact sheet on reducing technical barriers to trade highlighted in the 2019 NTE, click here.
For a fact sheet on successes in sanitary and phytosanitary (agricultural) standards highlighted in the 2019 NTE, click here.
For a fact sheet on digital trade issues highlighted in the 2019 NTE, click here.


Inaugural Meeting of the U.S.-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group
04/08/2019
Washington, D.C.—The United States and Kenya held the first meeting of the U.S.-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group on April 3-8, 2019. 
The Working Group, established by President Donald J. Trump and President Uhuru Kenyatta, will explore ways to deepen the trade and investment ties between the two countries and lay the groundwork for a stronger future trade relationship.
The delegations were led by United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Peter Munya, Cabinet Secretary for Trade and Industry, and included representatives from a wide range of U.S. and Kenyan government departments and agencies.
Under the Working Group, the United States and Kenya initially agreed to work together in the following areas:
Maximize the remaining years of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA);
Pursue exploratory talks on a future bilateral trade and investment framework;
Strengthen commercial cooperation; and
Develop short-term solutions to reduce barriers to trade and investment.
Both countries agreed to hold the next Working Group meeting in Nairobi in June 2019.
Background:
Trade between the two countries stands at about $1 billion a year. Over 70 percent ($466 million in 2018) of Kenya’s exports to the United States entered under AGOA.


USTR Proposes Products for Tariff Countermeasures in Response to Harm Caused by EU Aircraft Subsidies
04/08/2019
Washington, DC – The World Trade Organization (WTO) has found repeatedly that European Union (EU) subsidies to Airbus have caused adverse effects to the United States.  Today, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) begins its process under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 to identify products of the EU to which additional duties may be applied until the EU removes those subsidies. 
USTR is releasing for public comment a preliminary list of EU products to be covered by additional duties.  USTR estimates the harm from the EU subsidies as $11 billion in trade each year.  The amount is subject to an arbitration at the WTO, the result of which is expected to be issued this summer. 
“This case has been in litigation for 14 years, and the time has come for action. The Administration is preparing to respond immediately when the WTO issues its finding on the value of U.S. countermeasures,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Our ultimate goal is to reach an agreement with the EU to end all WTO-inconsistent subsidies to large civil aircraft.  When the EU ends these harmful subsidies, the additional U.S. duties imposed in response can be lifted.”
In line with U.S. law, the preliminary list contains a number of products in the civil aviation sector, including Airbus aircraft.  Once the WTO arbitrator issues its report on the value of countermeasures, USTR will announce a final product list covering a level of trade commensurate with the adverse effects determined to exist.
Background
After many years of seeking unsuccessfully to convince the EU and four of its member States (France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom) to cease their subsidization of Airbus, the United States brought a WTO challenge to EU subsidies in 2004. In 2011, the WTO found that the EU provided Airbus $18 billion in subsidized financing from 1968 to 2006.  In particular, the WTO found that European “launch aid” subsidies were instrumental in permitting Airbus to launch every model of its large civil aircraft, causing Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and market share throughout the world. 
In response, the EU removed two minor subsidies, but left most of them unchanged.  The EU also granted Airbus more than $5 billion in new subsidized “launch aid” financing for the A350 XWB.  The United States requested establishment of a compliance panel in March 2012 to address the EU’s failure to remove its old subsidies, as well as the new subsidies and their adverse effects.  That process came to a close with the issuance of an appellate report in May 2018 finding that EU subsidies to high-value, twin-aisle aircraft have caused serious prejudice to U.S. interests.  The report found that billions of dollars in launch aid to the A350 XWB and A380 cause significant lost sales to Boeing 787 and 747 aircraft, as well as lost market share for Boeing very large aircraft in the EU, Australia, China, Korea, Singapore, and UAE markets. 
Based on the appellate report, the United States requested authority to impose countermeasures worth $11.2 billion per year, commensurate with the adverse effects caused by EU subsidies.  The EU challenged that estimate, and a WTO arbitrator is currently evaluating those claims.


United States Prevails on “Zeroing” Again: WTO Panel Rejects Flawed Appellate Body Findings
04/09/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced today that a World Trade Organization (WTO) panel has once again found in favor of the United States in a dispute involving the use of “zeroing” in calculating antidumping duties.  This dispute concerned a challenge by Canada to an antidumping investigation of softwood lumber products.  For the fifth time overall, and the first time in relation to the specific “differential pricing” methodology at issue in this dispute, a WTO panel has disagreed with the Appellate Body and found that WTO rules do not prohibit zeroing.
“The WTO rules do not prohibit ‘zeroing’,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “The United States never agreed to any such rule in the WTO negotiations, and never would.  WTO Appellate Body reports to the contrary are wrong, and reflect overreaching by that body.  The United States commends this panel for doing its own interpretive analysis, and for having the courage to stand up to the undue pressure that the Appellate Body has been putting on panels for many years.  Appellate Body reports are not binding precedent, and where the Appellate Body’s reasoning is erroneous and unpersuasive, a WTO panel has an obligation not to follow such flawed reasoning.”
In this report, the WTO panel considered and rejected Appellate Body findings concerning the use of “zeroing” to calculate antidumping duties.  The panel interpreted the WTO Antidumping Agreement and found that the text does not prohibit zeroing under the alternative methodology designed to address targeted dumping.  In fact, the panel found that, reading a prohibition on zeroing into the text would render that alternative approach useless, contrary to the intention of WTO Members.  The panel explained that it “carefully considered” prior panel and Appellate Body reports but disagreed with those reports and therefore found convincing reasons to arrive at different conclusions.
Background:
The United States has longstanding concerns about unfairly dumped and subsidized imports of softwood lumber products from Canada.  In 2017, the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) found, for the third time in three decades, that Canadian producers are dumping softwood lumber in the U.S. market and causing material injury to U.S. softwood lumber producers. 
The softwood lumber industry is a vital part of the U.S. economy.  There are thousands of sawmills throughout the United States, the majority of which are small, local mills.  The USITC identified producers across the country, in AK, AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, FL, GA, ID, LA, ME, MI, MN, MO, MS, MT, NC, NH, NY, OK, OR, SC, SD, TX, VA, UT, WA, WI, WV, and WY.  In 2016, the U.S. softwood lumber industry employed more than 18,000 workers and shipped approximately $7.12 billion of softwood lumber products.  Imports of softwood lumber products from Canada in 2016 totaled $5.78 billion. 
In this dispute, Canada challenged Commerce’s affirmative final determination in the antidumping investigation of softwood lumber products from Canada.  Specifically, Canada challenged Commerce’s use of a “differential pricing” analysis and “zeroing” in connection with an alternative methodology provided for in the WTO Antidumping Agreement that permits WTO Members to identify and address injurious targeted dumping.
When Commerce calculates a weighted average dumping margin for a given company, it typically takes into account numerous comparisons between sales in the United States and sales in the home market or third country market (or costs in the home market).  It is not uncommon for Commerce to find that some comparisons reveal dumping (i.e., the price in the United States is lower than the home market price), while others reveal no dumping (i.e., the price in the United States is equal to or higher than the home market price).  Where a comparison reveals no dumping, Commerce assigns a zero to that comparison, rather than a negative number equal to the amount by which the U.S. price exceeds the home market price.  This approach is commonly referred to as “zeroing.”
Commerce has used a “differential pricing” analysis to identify a pattern of export prices which differ significantly among different purchasers, regions, or time periods.  The identification of such a pattern is a prerequisite to applying an alternative methodology to unmask targeted dumping, which can be hidden when high-priced sales are averaged together with low-priced sales.
This panel found that the use of “zeroing” in connection with the alternative, targeted dumping methodology under Article 2.4.2 of the Antidumping Agreement is not inconsistent with WTO rules.  Among other things, the panel reasoned that nothing in the text of the Antidumping Agreement directly addresses the use of “zeroing”.  The panel agreed with the United States that, if the use of “zeroing” were prohibited in connection with the alternative, targeted dumping methodology, then the alternative calculation methodology necessarily always would result in a margin of dumping that is mathematically equivalent to that calculated using the normal calculation methodology, which would render the alternative methodology useless.  In coming to its conclusion, the panel also examined and disagreed with findings in prior WTO panel and Appellate Body reports.  The panel explained why it found the approach of those reports not persuasive.
The panel also found that one aspect of Commerce’s “differential pricing” analysis – in which Commerce aggregated differences in export prices across categories (i.e., purchasers, regions, and time periods) to find a single pattern of export prices which differed significantly among different purchasers, regions, and time periods – was inconsistent with the requirements of the WTO Antidumping Agreement.
Either party may request adoption of the panel report by the WTO Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) or may appeal the report. 


USTR Successfully Resolves Concerns Raised in First-Ever Environment Consultations Under the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA)
04/09/2019
Washington, DC – The United States and Peru have worked together to successfully resolve the concerns raised in the first-ever environment consultations under the United States – Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA). 
On January 4, 2019, the United States requested the consultations under Article 18.12.1 of the PTPA Environment Chapter (Environment Consultations and Panel Procedure). The request concerned a December 2018 decision by the Peruvian Government to move the Agency for the Supervision of Forest Resources and Wildlife (OSINFOR) to a subordinate position under Peru’s Ministry of Environment (MINAM), a move that could have undermined OSINFOR’s independence and hindered its ability to effectively enforce Peru’s forestry laws. 
Today, Peru’s Council of Ministers published Supreme Decree No. 066-2019-PCM, which annulled its December 2018 decision to move OSINFOR, returning OSINFOR to its previous position reporting directly to Peru’s Prime Minister.
“We are pleased with Peru’s decision to retain OSINFOR as an independent and separate agency, as required by our bilateral agreement,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer. “This shows that strong enforcement works. I am committed to using enforcement tools to ensure that our trade agreements protect the environment and advance the interests of U.S. workers and businesses.”
Background:
The PTPA’s unique Annex on Forest Sector Governance requires that “OSINFOR shall be an independent and separate agency and its mandate shall include supervision of verification of all timber concessions and permits.” 
On December 14, 2018, Peru published Supreme Decree No. 122-2018-PCM, which immediately moved OSINFOR from Peru’s Office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (PCM) to Peru’s Ministry of Environment (MINAM).
The United States reacted swiftly to this move, and on January 4, 2019, USTR requested environment consultations under Article 18.12.1 of the PTPA Environment Chapter (Environment Consultations and Panel Procedure).  On January 30, the United States and Peru held technical consultations to discuss the matter, and then elevated the matter by referring it to the PTPA Environmental Affairs Council (EAC), which met on February 21 in Lima.  On April 9, Peru’s Council of Ministers annulled the original Supreme Decree, thereby retaining OSINFOR’s position as part of the PCM and resolving the matter. In addition, Supreme Decree No. 066-2019-PCM establishes a timeline for the PCM to issue an announcement for hiring the next Head of OSINFOR, retains a previously selected representative from civil society as part of the hiring committee, and repeals a previously issued Supreme Decree and Ministerial Resolutions issued to implement OSINFOR’s move to MINAM.
OSINFOR was established in 2008 as an independent forest oversight body responsible at the national level for monitoring and enforcing the sustainable use and conservation of forest and wildlife resources in Peru, including by conducting post-harvest inspections of forestry titles and by sanctioning those that harvest timber illegally. The United States sought and achieved in the PTPA an obligation for Peru to establish OSINFOR as a separate and independent agency, to ensure a strong and independent body with sufficient resources to safeguard Peru’s forest oversight from undue political influence.
USTR will continue to work closely with the Government of Peru and with Members of Congress, interested agencies, and stakeholders in order to ensure effective implementation of the PTPA Environment Chapter and Forest Annex.
Click here to read the PTPA Environment Chapter and Forest Annex.
Click here to read more about efforts to implement and enforce the PTPA Environment Chapter and Forest Annex.
Click here to read Supreme Decree No. 066-2019-PCM.


Second Joint Committee Meeting Under The Bilateral Agreement Between The United States Of America And The European Union On Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance And Reinsurance
04/12/2019
WASHINGTON - On April 2, 2019, the United States and the European Union held the second meeting of the Joint Committee established under the U.S.-EU agreement on prudential measures regarding insurance and reinsurance (“the Agreement” hereafter). The United States and the European Union signed the Agreement on September 22, 2017, and the Agreement entered into force on April 4, 2018.
The Agreement—which is a ‘covered agreement’ as defined by the Dodd-Frank Act for the United States and an Agreement under Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the European Union—addresses three areas of prudential insurance oversight: (1) reinsurance; (2) group supervision; and (3) the exchange of insurance information between supervisors.
The Joint Committee meeting was attended by representatives from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union, and the Delegation of the European Union to the United States, as well as by U.S. state insurance commissioners and representatives from the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the Federal Reserve Board.
At the second Joint Committee meeting under the Agreement, participants on both sides provided updates regarding the implementation of the Agreement on reinsurance, group supervision and exchange of information, and discussed procedural aspects of the Joint Committee.
At the meeting, both sides acknowledged progress made toward implementing the Agreement and reconfirmed their commitment to full and timely implementation, including the removal of collateral and local presence requirements for reinsurers and the provisions on group supervision measures. In addition, the European Union and the United States reaffirmed their commitment to continuous review of progress on the Agreement and close coordination between the two sides. Consistent with the Agreement, both sides are continuing to encourage relevant authorities to refrain from taking any measures that are inconsistent with any of the conditions or obligations of the Agreement. 


Statement on the United States – Egypt Trade and Investment Council Meeting
04/12/2019
Washington, DC – The United States-Egypt Trade and Investment Council, established under the 1999 Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), held a meeting on April 9, 2019 in Washington, D.C. to promote expanded bilateral trade and investment in both goods and services. The meeting was co-chaired by L. Daniel Mullaney, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative, and Ahmed Anter, Under Secretary, Egypt Ministry of Trade and Investment.
During the meeting, the United States and Egypt discussed a range of bilateral trade and investment issues and noted positively the increase in bilateral trade during 2018. Officials focused on seeking ways to promote greater reciprocal market access for agricultural and industrial goods. They discussed needed Egyptian labor reforms, improving IP protection including through accession to relevant international treaties, strengthening border enforcement measures, and implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement. They also acknowledged the need to recognize international technical standards and to discourage the use of discriminatory policies.
Both Governments agreed that ongoing bilateral engagement on trade under the TIFA should include work that yields benefits for agricultural producers, importers, exporters, and consumers. In this vein, the United States and Egypt are collaborating on the development of scientific, risk-based food safety practices consistent with international guidelines of the Codex Alimentarius Commission. This work will build on private sector and local efforts already underway in Egypt.
The United States welcomes Egypt’s acceptance of U.S. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards for the importation of fully assembled vehicles and its decision to modify its Decree 607, relaxing domestic ownership requirements for express shipping companies. The United States also expressed a willingness to explore further technical assistance in Egypt with the aim of promoting enhanced trade and investment.
Both governments agreed to strive to make additional progress in advance of the next Council meeting, to be held in Cairo, Egypt in 2020. 
Background
Total bilateral goods trade has grown over the decades to an estimated $7.5 billion in 2018.  Egypt benefits from the participation in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and the Qualifying Industrial Zones (QIZ) programs, with roughly $1 billion of Egyptian goods exports to the United States entering the U.S. market duty free every year.


Joint Statement on the UK-U.S. Marine Technology Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise (SME) Best Practice Exchange
04/15/2019
The UK and the U.S. held a Marine Technology Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise (SME) best practice exchange at the Ocean Business 2019 exhibition in Southampton, UK on April 8, 2019. This was under the auspices of the United States-United Kingdom Trade and Investment Working Group.   
This was the first sectoral-focused dialogue bringing together over 50 marine technology SMEs and industry experts on both sides of the Atlantic with government officials from:
the UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
the UK Department for International Trade
the U.S. Department of Commerce
the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
The UK and U.S. welcomed the creation of a business-to-business contact group of UK and U.S. SMEs in Marine Technology under the leadership of the Society of Maritime Industries for the UK and The Maritime Alliance for the U.S. 
The Exchange highlighted the opportunities for marine technology SMEs in the UK and U.S. and identified the support available from governments and the private sector to help them access one another’s markets.  During the Best Practice Exchange, UK and U.S. SMEs learned how they would be able to benefit from the Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA) on Marine Equipment signed in February 2019 by the U.S. and UK in Washington, DC. Under this agreement designated products which comply with U.S. requirements will be accepted for sale in the UK without any additional testing, and vice versa. The MRA will help ensure that U.S.-UK trade in these product sectors is not disrupted when the UK leaves the European Union.  
Based on 2018 data, an estimated $344 million in U.S.-UK marine equipment trade would be covered under the MRA, creating opportunities for small businesses on both sides to access transatlantic markets.  Bilateral trade in this sector has been growing in recent years.


Statement from USTR on Meetings to Discuss the United States-Japan Trade Agreement
04/16/2019
Washington, D.C. - United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer met with Japan’s Economic Revitalization Minister Toshimitsu Motegi on April 15-16 in Washington to continue negotiations on the United States-Japan Trade Agreement.
The two officials reaffirmed their shared goal of achieving substantive results on trade in furtherance of the joint statement issued by President Donald J. Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on September 26, 2018.
The United States and Japan discussed trade issues involving goods, including agriculture, as well as the need to establish high standards in the area of digital trade. In addition, the United States raised its very large trade deficit with Japan – $67.6 billion in goods in 2018.
Ambassador Lighthizer and Minister Motegi agreed that the United States and Japan will meet again in the near future to continue these talks.


U.S. Beef, Poultry and Egg Products Gain New Market Access in Tunisia
04/17/2019
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced today that the government of Tunisia and the United States have finalized U.S. export certificates to allow imports of U.S. beef, poultry, and egg products into Tunisia.  This announcement follows meetings between U.S. and Tunisian officials on the safety and wholesomeness of U.S. beef, poultry, and egg products.
“President Trump continues to prioritize the opening of new markets for U.S. agricultural products, and we welcome Tunisia’s agreement to begin imports of U.S. beef, poultry, and egg products,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “New access to the Tunisian market is an important step in ensuring that American farmers and ranchers can continue to expand their exports of U.S. agricultural products.”
“I'm convinced that when the Tunisians get a taste of U.S. beef, poultry, and eggs, they're going to want more. These products coming into Tunisia are safe, wholesome, and very delicious,” said Secretary Perdue. “At the direction of President Trump, USDA remains committed to opening up new markets across the globe. While we continue to supply Tunisia’s domestic animal proteins sector with quality U.S. grains and oilseeds, I have no doubt that U.S. beef, poultry, and eggs will only help increase competitiveness and consumer choice within Tunisia.”
In 2018, U.S. exports of agricultural products to Tunisia exceeded $264 million. Over 90 percent of exports were corn, soybeans, or corn and soy products.  Initial estimates are that Tunisia would import annually $5-10 million of beef, poultry, and egg products from the United States, with additional growth over time.
More details on requirements for exporting to Tunisia are available from the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service Export Library. 


United States Wins Dispute Finding China’s Administration of Grain Tariff-Rate Quotas Breaches WTO Commitments
04/18/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced today that a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement panel found that China has administered its tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) for wheat, corn, and rice inconsistently with its WTO commitments.  Contrary to those commitments, China’s TRQ administration is not transparent, predictable, or fair, and it ultimately inhibits TRQs from filling, denying U.S. farmers access to China’s market for grain.
This panel report is the second significant victory for U.S. agriculture this year, and, together with the victory against China’s excessive domestic support for grains, will help American farmers compete on a more level playing field. 
“This second important victory for the United States further demonstrates that President Trump will take all steps necessary to enforce trade rules and to ensure free and fair trade for U.S. farmers,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “The Administration will continue to press China to promptly come into compliance with its WTO obligations.”
China’s grain TRQs have annually underfilled.  USDA estimates that if China’s TRQs had been fully used, it would have imported as much as $3.5 billion worth of corn, wheat and rice in 2015 alone. 
“Making sure our trading partners play by the rules is vital to providing our farmers the opportunity to export high-quality, American-grown products to the world,” said Secretary Perdue. “Today’s announcement is another victory for American farmers and fairness in the global trade system. We will use every tool available to gain meaningful market access opportunities for U.S. grains and other agricultural products.”
Background:
Upon accession to the WTO, China made commitments specific to its administration of TRQs, including the commitment to administer its TRQs in a transparent, predictable, and fair basis, using clearly specified administrative procedures and requirements that do not inhibit the filling of each TRQ.  In August 2017, the United States requested that the WTO establish a dispute settlement panel to consider whether China administers its TRQs for long-grain rice, short- and medium-grain rice, wheat, and corn in a manner inconsistent with its WTO commitments. 
Today’s panel report agrees with the United States that China administers its TRQs in a manner inconsistent with its Accession Protocol obligations, through its eligibility criteria, allocation and reallocation procedures, public comment process, and processing restrictions.  In addition, China allocates a significant portion of each TRQ to a designated state-trading enterprise (STE) and does not subject the STE to the same rules applied to non-state trading enterprises applying for and importing grains under the TRQs.   Each finding individually established that China’s TRQ measures are inconsistent with its obligations.        
Compliance with WTO rules will lead to market-oriented TRQ administration and improved access for U.S. and other exporters, overall creating a more level playing field.
Read more about the U.S. challenge, including additional details about how China’s TRQ administration breaches its WTO commitments.


USMCA Estimated to Support 76,000 Additional American Auto Jobs, Billions in New Auto Manufacturing Investments
04/18/2019
Washington, DC -- The Office of the United States Trade Representative today released an analysis of the estimated impact the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) will have on investment and jobs in the U.S. automotive sector.
The analysis, based in large part on information provided by North American automotive manufacturers, estimates that over a five-year period the USMCA will result in:
$34 billion in new automotive manufacturing investments in the U.S.;
$23 billion in new annual purchases of U.S.-made automotive parts; and
76,000 jobs in the U.S. automotive sector.
“One of President Trump’s major priorities in renegotiating and replacing NAFTA was to discourage the outsourcing of American automotive jobs and instead to encourage more investment and manufacturing jobs here in the United States,” said United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “Information from all the major auto companies confirms that the new USMCA’s rules of origin will achieve this goal.  These much-needed improvements are key to supporting more good-paying manufacturing jobs for American workers.”
The USTR analysis notes that the USMCA is already helping to stimulate billions of dollars in new auto manufacturing investments in the United States.  Fiat Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Toyota, and Volkswagen have publicly announced recent investments that were partly influenced by their anticipated need to comply with USMCA’s rules of origin.
To read the USTR analysis, please click here


Statement from U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on the ITC Report
04/18/2019
ITC Reports USMCA Will Raise U.S. Real GDP by $68.2 Billion and U.S. employment by 176,000 Jobs
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer released the following statement today about the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) report on the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA):
“We welcome the International Trade Commission’s independent analysis of the USMCA.  This report is an important step forward in gaining congressional approval of the USMCA.  The ITC analysis shows that USMCA will increase U.S. employment by 176,000 jobs and is projected to increase GDP by 0.35%.  This is more than double the 0.15% growth rate the ITC projected for the multilateral Trans-Pacific Partnership.  These findings validate President Trump’s action to withdraw from TPP and renegotiate the disastrous NAFTA.  With USMCA, we will have stronger growth, more trade and more jobs – particularly in manufacturing.  There can be no doubt that the USMCA is a big win for America’s economy.” 
Earlier today, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released an analysis of the estimated impact the USMCA will have on U.S. investment, purchases of U.S. auto parts, and jobs in the U.S. automotive sector.
The analysis, based in large part on information provided by North American automakers, estimates that over a five-year period the USMCA will result in:
$34 billion in new automotive manufacturing investments in the U.S.;
$23 billion in new annual purchases of U.S.-made automotive parts; and
76,000 jobs in the U.S. automotive sector alone. 
The USTR analysis notes that the USMCA is already helping to stimulate billions of dollars in new auto manufacturing investments in the United States.  Fiat Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Toyota, and Volkswagen have publicly announced recent investments that were partly influenced by their anticipated need to comply with USMCA’s rules of origin.
To read the USTR analysis, please click here. 


Statement from USTR Robert Lighthizer
04/22/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding USTR General Counsel Stephen P. Vaughn, who will departing USTR in the coming weeks. He will be replaced as General Counsel by Joseph L. Barloon.
“From the beginning of the Trump Administration and the many years I have worked with him before, Stephen Vaughn has been a principled leader, a trusted advisor, and an expert attorney advancing fair trade in the interest of working Americans. Stephen has played a central role in shaping and implementing the President’s trade policies, especially related to China and the World Trade Organization. I am deeply grateful for Stephen’s service to our country, including his leadership as Acting USTR during the first few months of the Administration. Stephen and his family have my warmest wishes as Stephen moves on to his next venture.
“I am pleased to welcome another highly-respected attorney as USTR’s next General Counsel, Joe Barloon.  Joe comes to USTR with over 20 years of experience, specializing in government enforcement actions as well as civil and criminal investigations and actions.  Joe brings legal expertise and sound judgement. He will be a valued addition in our effort to pursue the President’s trade agenda in rebalancing and reforming global trade. I look forward to working with Joe as USTR continues trade negotiations and enforcement efforts around the world on behalf of America’s farmers, ranchers, workers and businesses.”
About Joseph L. Barloon:
Joseph Barloon has been a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP for more than a decade. Previously, Joe was a law clerk for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He holds an A.B. from Harvard University, an M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania, and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center.


Joint Statement of the United States-Mongolia Trade and Investment Council
04/24/2019
Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States-Mongolia Trade and Investment Council, established pursuant to the 2004 United States-Mongolia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), convened in Washington, D.C., to discuss opportunities for promoting and expanding bilateral trade and investment. The meeting was co-chaired by Terrence J. McCartin, Acting Assistant U.S. Trade Representative, and Damdinsuren Davaasuren, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.   
During the meeting, the United States and Mongolia welcomed the 31st anniversary of diplomatic relations between the United States and Mongolia and took note of the Roadmap for Expanded Economic Partnership, which they endorsed in September 2018. They also highlighted the positive role that TIFA discussions can play in supporting Mongolia’s efforts to develop a prosperous market-based economy.
The United States and Mongolia also discussed a range of bilateral trade and investment issues. Key issues included transparency, the investment climate, intellectual property rights protection and enforcement, trade in cashmere, the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), trade facilitation, and trade promotion. 
Mongolia will host the next meeting of the TIFA Council in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
Background
Total bilateral trade in goods was $131 million in 2018. U.S. goods exports to Mongolia in 2018 were $121 million, up 47.1% ($39 million) from 2017 and up 111.2% from 2008. Imports of goods from Mongolia were $10 million in 2018. U. S. foreign direct investment (FDI) in Mongolia was $147 million in 2017, a 63.3% increase from 2016.


USTR Releases Annual Special 301 Report on Intellectual Property Protection and Review of Notorious Markets for Piracy and Counterfeiting
04/25/2019
Washington, DC - The Office of the United States Trade Representative today released its annual Special 301 Report on the adequacy and effectiveness of trading partners’ protection of intellectual property rights and the findings of its Notorious Markets List, which highlights online and physical markets that reportedly engage in and facilitate substantial copyright piracy and trademark counterfeiting.
Special 301 Report
The Special 301 Report identifies trading partners that do not adequately or effectively protect and enforce intellectual property (IP) rights or otherwise deny market access to U.S. innovators and creators that rely on protection of their IP rights.
Trading partners that currently present the most significant concerns regarding IP rights are placed on the Priority Watch List or Watch List. USTR identified 36 countries for these lists in the Special 301 Report:
Algeria, Argentina, Chile, China, India, Indonesia, Kuwait, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine and Venezuela are on the Priority Watch List.
Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Greece, Guatemala, Jamaica, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Romania, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan and Vietnam are on the Watch List.
These trading partners will be the subject of increased bilateral engagement with USTR to address IP concerns. Specifically, over the coming weeks, USTR will review the developments against the benchmarks established in the Special 301 action plans for countries that have been on the Priority Watch List for multiple years. For such countries that fail to address U.S. concerns, USTR will take appropriate actions, such as enforcement actions under Section 301 of the Trade Act or pursuant to World Trade Organization or other trade agreement dispute settlement procedures, necessary to combat unfair trade practices and to ensure that trading partners follow through with their international commitments.
As part of the Special 301 review process, USTR invited public comments and held a public hearing that featured testimony from witnesses representing foreign governments, industry, and non-governmental organizations. USTR also offered a post-hearing comment period during which hearing participants could submit additional information.  
Click here to read the 2019 Special 301 public hearing transcript.
Click here to view the video recording of the 2019 Special 301 public hearing.
To read the Special 301 Report, click here.
Notorious Markets List
The Notorious Markets List highlights 33 online markets and 25 physical markets that are reported to engage in and facilitate substantial copyright piracy and trademark counterfeiting. This activity harms the American economy by undermining the innovation and intellectual property rights of U.S. IP owners in foreign markets. An estimated 2.5 percent, or nearly half a trillion dollars’ worth, of global imports are counterfeit and pirated products.
The 2018 Notorious Markets List maintains its special focus on the distribution of pirated content and counterfeit goods online. This year, the Notorious Markets List highlights free trade zones and the role they may play in facilitating trade in counterfeit and pirated goods. It also continues to discuss emerging piracy models, including illicit streaming devices, “stream-ripping,” and piracy portals and apps, that cause major damage to the digital marketplace for legitimate music, movies, and television. The Notorious Markets List also calls on several e-commerce platforms to improve takedown procedures and cooperation with right holders—particularly small and medium-sized businesses—to decrease the volume and prevalence of counterfeit and pirated goods on their platforms.
The Notorious Markets List does not constitute an exhaustive list of all markets reported to deal in pirated or counterfeit goods around the world, nor does it reflect findings of legal violations or the U.S. Government’s analysis of the general IP protection and enforcement climate in the country concerned. This announcement concludes the 2018 Out-of-Cycle Review of Notorious Markets, which USTR initiated on August 16, 2018, through publication in the Federal Register of a request for public comments. The request for comments and the public’s responses is online at www.regulations.gov, Docket number USTR-2018-0027.
To read the Notorious Markets List, click here.


USTR Lighthizer Commends Passage of Historic Labor Reforms in Mexico
04/29/2019
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement on Monday after Mexico’s Congress passed historic labor reform as part of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA):
“The USMCA includes the strongest, most advanced, and most comprehensive labor obligations of any U.S. trade agreement.  I commend the Mexican Congress and President Lopez Obrador for passing historic labor reforms as part of this agreement and thank President Trump for making strong labor commitments in the USMCA a top priority.  These reforms will greatly improve Mexico's system of labor justice and are exactly what labor leaders in the United States and Mexico have sought for decades.  As we move forward with the ratification of USMCA, the Trump Administration will work closely with members of the United States Congress and the Mexican government to ensure these reforms are implemented and enforced.”


Statement By U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Section 301 Action
05/10/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement regarding additional action under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974:
“Earlier today, at the direction of the President, the United States increased the level of tariffs from 10 percent to 25 percent on approximately $200 billion worth of Chinese imports. The President also ordered us to begin the process of raising tariffs on essentially all remaining imports from China, which are valued at approximately $300 billion.”
The process for public notice and comment will be published shortly in the Federal Register. The details will be on the USTR website on Monday as we begin the process prior to a final decision on these tariffs.


Public Hearing on Proposed Countermeasures to EU Aircraft Subsidies
05/14/2019
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold a public hearing from 9:30 AM – 4:30 PM EST on May 15, 2019 and from 9:30 AM – 12:00 PM EST on May 16, 2019 regarding proposed action to enforce U.S. rights in the World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute against harmful subsidies on large civil aircraft by the European Union (EU) or certain EU member States. 
The hearing will take place in the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The Section 301 Committee invited comments from the public on any aspect of the action, including proposed tariffs on products of the EU or certain member States.
The WTO has found repeatedly that EU subsidies to Airbus have caused adverse effects to the United States. USTR estimates the EU subsidies cause approximately $11 billion of harm in trade to the United States per year.  The amount of countermeasures the United States is authorized to impose is currently subject to arbitration at the WTO, the result of which is expected to be issued this summer. 
The Federal Register notice publishing the proposed list of products of the EU or certain member States to which additional duties may be applied can be viewed here.
Click here to view the witness list.


United States Announces Deal with Canada and Mexico to Lift Retaliatory Tariffs
05/17/2019
Washington, DC –Today, the United States announced an agreement with Canada and Mexico to remove the Section 232 tariffs for steel and aluminum imports from those countries and for the removal of all retaliatory tariffs imposed on American goods by those countries.  The agreement provides for aggressive monitoring and a mechanism to prevent surges in imports of steel and aluminum. If surges in imports of specific steel and aluminum products occur, the United States may re-impose Section 232 tariffs on those products. Any retaliation by Canada and Mexico would then be limited to steel and aluminum products. This agreement is great news for American farmers that have been subject to retaliatory tariffs from Canada and Mexico. At the same time, the Agreement will continue to protect America’s steel and aluminum industries. 
###
Joint Statement by the United States and Canada on Section 232 Duties on Steel and Aluminum
Joint Statement by the United States and Mexico on Section 232 Duties on Steel and Aluminum


Joint Statement of the Trilateral Meeting of the Trade Ministers of the United States, European Union, and Japan
05/23/2019
Paris, May 23, 2019
Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative, Mrs. Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, and Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, met in Paris on May 23, 2019.
The Ministers advanced discussions on their shared objective to address non market-oriented policies and practices of third countries that lead to severe overcapacity, create unfair competitive conditions for their workers and businesses, hinder the development and use of innovative technologies, and undermine the proper functioning of international trade and discussed various tools needed to deal with these problems.
They reiterated their concerns, reviewed ongoing work, and agreed to deepen their cooperation in all areas covered by the Ministerial Statements issued in Washington DC, New York, and Paris, including nonmarket policies and practices, market-oriented conditions, forced technology transfer policies and practices, industrial subsidies and state-owned enterprises, WTO reform, and digital trade and e-commerce.
In today's meeting, the Ministers discussed in particular:
On concerns with non-market oriented policies and practices, Ministers took stock of the intensification of the exchange of information between them, the identification of additional criteria indicating that market-oriented conditions exist, and confirmed that market-oriented conditions are fundamental to a fair, mutually advantageous global trading system and that their citizens and businesses operate under market-oriented conditions. The Ministers also confirmed their commitment to continue working together to maintain the effectiveness of existing WTO disciplines, including through ongoing WTO disputes.
The Ministers shared growing concerns about third parties’ developing State Enterprises into national champions, disrupting market-oriented trade, and directing those State Enterprises to dominate global markets.  The Ministers also shared growing concerns about the non-market advantages and non-market domestic behavior of State Enterprises that result in distortions that negatively affect farmers, workers, and enterprises in the Ministers’ home countries.  The Ministers affirmed their commitment to effective means to address these concerns and, to this end, deepen discussions on enforcement and rule-making as tools to address these problems.
On industrial subsidies, Ministers welcomed the progress made in discussions on text-based work on increasing transparency, identifying harmful subsidies that merit stricter treatment and ensuring that appropriate benchmarks can be used. Ministers instructed their staff to continue efforts to finalize trilateral text-based work on these and other issues in order to engage with other key WTO Members with the aim of initiating negotiations on stronger disciplines on industrial subsidies and state-owned enterprises.  They also agreed to increase outreach to key WTO Members on the need to strengthen industrial subsidies rules to address market distortions. They also welcomed the close cooperation they have developed in the context of WTO disputes addressing non-market distortions and subsidies through public bodies.
In the area of forced technology transfers, Ministers confirmed their agreement to cooperate on enforcement, on the development of new rules, on investment review for national security purposes, on export controls and further take stock of this cooperation.  
Ministers confirmed ongoing trilateral cooperation on investment review mechanisms and welcomed deepening cooperation among the relevant authorities, including through the sharing of best practices on risk analysis and mitigation methods.
On the reform of the WTO, the three partners submitted a revised transparency and notification proposal to the Council for Trade in Goods in April with other co-sponsors, and the Ministers agreed to intensify engagement with other trading partners to advance this proposal in a manner that increased WTO Member compliance with existing WTO notification obligations aiming at an agreement at the earliest possible timing.  They confirmed their agreement to work towards strengthening the regular committees’ activities.  The Ministers welcomed the ongoing discussion in the WTO on addressing special and differential treatment in current and future WTO negotiations.  They reiterated their call on advanced WTO Members claiming developing country status to undertake full commitments in ongoing and future WTO negotiations and applauded that some WTO Members have indicated their intent to do so.
The Ministers call on the International Working Group on Export Credits to accelerate its work with a view to reach consensus on the new international export finance disciplines by 2020 in order to level the playing field for export credits.
Ministers welcomed the Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce issued in Davos on 25 January 2019 and confirmed their commitment to seek to achieve a high standard agreement with the participation of as many WTO Members as possible.
The Ministers look forward to further cooperation for the G20 Ministerial Meeting on Trade and the Digital Economy and the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity under the Japanese G20 Presidency.


Joint Statement of the U.S-Tunisia Trade and Investment Council
05/28/2019
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The United States-Tunisia Trade and Investment Council met on May 16, 2019 in Washington, D.C., under the auspices of the bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA).  This was the eighth session of the Council held since the TIFA was signed in 2002.  Daniel Mullaney, the Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East, led the U.S. delegation, which included representatives from the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation. Ambassador Khaled Khiari, Director General for the Americas, Asia and Oceania in the Tunisian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led the Tunisian delegation, which consisted of representatives from the Ministry of Commerce; the Ministry of  Development, Investment and International Cooperation; the Ministry of Agriculture; and the National Institute of Standardization and Industrial Property. 
The U.S. and Tunisian delegations discussed a range of issues and cooperative activities, with a view to exploring ways to expand bilateral trade and investment and create jobs, to the mutual benefit of both countries. Two-way trade in goods reached $1.2 billion in 2018 – more than three times the level in 2000. Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Mullaney and Ambassador Khiari welcomed recent progress in technical discussions between agricultural experts, which resulted in the finalization of health certificates allowing U.S. egg, poultry and beef products to be shipped to Tunisia. The two delegations discussed additional engagement on food and agriculture issues, including with respect to grain specifications, and Tunisia’s food safety and biosecurity laws, as well as ongoing and possible future technical assistance to Tunisia in the agriculture area.  They also noted Tunisia’s recent successes in entering several U.S. markets, including those for dates, olive oil and handicrafts.
Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Mullaney emphasized that the United States looks forward to further progress in the area of customs and trade facilitation, focusing on Tunisia’s continued implementation of provisions of the World Trade Organization‘s Trade Facilitation Agreement and other improvements in Tunisian customs procedures. The two delegations also discussed at length issues related to the protection of intellectual property, including geographical indications, patents and regulatory data protection for pharmaceutical products. 
Ambassador Khiari acknowledged and welcomed the positive impact on Tunisia’s economic development of sustained U.S. Government engagement with Tunisia since the 2010-11 revolution, including through Tunisian participation in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program and Tunisian receipt of U.S. technical assistance through a number of programs. Technical assistance has included support provided by the Commerce Department’s Commercial Law Development Program (CLDP), which has focused on multiple areas, including franchising, public procurement, technology transfer and reform of Tunisia‘s foreign investment framework, and most recently by the Millennium Challenge Corporation, which is in the process of developing its first Compact for Tunisia. 
Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Mullaney also congratulated the Tunisian government on the considerable progress it has made on its economic reform program since the last Council meeting in 2017 – including in particular steps the Tunisian side has taken to implement the 2017 investment law -- which should make Tunisia an even more attractive trading partner for U.S. businesses.  Ambassador Khiari highlighted the recognition Tunisia has received in the most recent World Bank Doing Business Report, which confirmed that the country had advanced significantly in the report’s country ranking of best places to do business.
The two delegations agreed to follow up discussions in the Council meeting with more focused consultations among experts in the various issue areas.  The next meeting of the Council is envisioned for 2020 in Tunis. 


Notice Regarding Application of Section 301 Action
05/31/2019
The Office of the United States Trade Representative intends to publish a notice in the Federal Register next week that extends the amount of time certain goods exported from China have to enter the United States before they will be subject to an additional tariff increase from 10 percent to 25 percent.
Covered products that were exported from China to the United States prior to May 10, 2019 will remain subject to an additional 10 percent tariff if they enter into the U.S. before June 15, 2019. Originally, the deadline to enter the U.S. before the goods would be subject to an additional 25 percent tariff was June 1, 2019.
This limited extension will further account for customs enforcement factors and the transit time between China and the United States by sea.


U.S. Trade Representative and the U.S. Department of Treasury respond to the “White Paper” issued by China on June 2, 2019
06/03/2019
The United States is disappointed that the Chinese have chosen in the “White Paper” issued yesterday and recent public statements to pursue a blame game misrepresenting the nature and history of trade negotiations between the two countries.  To understand where the parties are and where they can go, it is necessary to understand the history that has led to the current impasse.
President Trump is committed to taking action to address the unfair trade practices that China has engaged in for decades, which have contributed to persistent and unsustainable trade deficits, almost $420 billion last year, and have caused severe harm to American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.  In August 2017, at the President’s instruction, the United States Trade Representative conducted an investigation of China’s practices relating to intellectual property rights, innovation, and technology development.  After receiving and considering extensive hearing testimony and other evidence over an investigation that lasted seven months, the United States issued a 200-page report in March 2018 documenting how China had engaged in unfair trade practices, including forced technology transfer, failed to protect American intellectual property rights, and conducted and supported cyber theft from American companies, robbing them of sensitive commercial information and trade secrets.  These unfair trade practices and other actions by China have cost the United States and its businesses hundreds of billions of dollars every year. 
Based on these findings, the President directed his Administration to take effective action to address China’s harmful and distortive actions under both U.S. law and any applicable international agreements.  The President directed USTR to challenge China’s unfair trade practices at the World Trade Organization but also to impose tariffs on China to offset the damage to U.S. industry caused by China’s conduct.  In response, rather than working constructively to address our concerns, China doubled down and retaliated by imposing unjustified tariffs on American exports, and the United States responded with additional tariffs. 
After Presidents Trump and Xi agreed to launch the current negotiations in Buenos Aires in December 2018, President Trump postponed for 90 days the increase in tariffs on Chinese imports that was scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2019.  The President extended the deadline again in March because the parties appeared to be making progress in their talks.  Following months of hard work and candid and constructive discussions, the parties had reached agreement on a number of important matters.  In wrapping up the final important issues, however, the Chinese moved away from previously agreed-upon provisions.  In response to this Chinese backtracking, the United States moved forward with the previously-announced rate increase on Chinese imports and announced tariffs on additional Chinese imports. 
It is important to note that the impetus for the discussions was China’s long history of unfair trade practices.  Our negotiating positions have been consistent throughout these talks, and China back-pedaled on important elements of what the parties had agreed to.  One such position was the need for enforceability, a position necessitated by China’s history of making commitments that it fails to keep.  But our insistence on detailed and enforceable commitments from the Chinese in no way constitutes a threat to Chinese sovereignty.  Rather, the issues discussed are common to trade agreements and are necessary to address the systemic issues that have contributed to persistent and unsustainable trade deficits. 


Statement on the United States-CARICOM Trade and Investment Council
06/07/2019
Miami, Florida – On June 6 and 7, 2019, the United States and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) held the eighth meeting of the United States-CARICOM Trade and Investment Council (TIC). In addition to the United States, the governments of Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Saint Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago were present.
Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for the Western Hemisphere John Melle chaired the meeting for the United States, and Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of International Trade, Industry, and Commerce of St. Kitts and Nevis Jasemin Warner-Weekes chaired the meeting for CARICOM. Officials from a number of trade and regulatory agencies accompanied both delegations.
The delegations discussed a broad range of trade and investment related issues, including trade preference programs, intellectual property, trade in services, agricultural matters, and broader regional issues. The delegations shared information on current third-party negotiations and implementation of the World Trade Organization Trade Facilitation Agreement.
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative welcomed the opportunity to continue engaging on these key issues and stressed the importance of the United States’ economic partnerships with CARICOM Member States.


Members Named to Seven Agricultural Trade Advisory Committees
06/11/2019
Washington, DC– Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced the appointment of 140 private-sector members to the Agricultural Policy Advisory Committee for Trade and six Agricultural Technical Advisory Committees for Trade.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture has released the lists of appointees, by committee:
Agricultural Policy Advisory Committee
Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Animals and Animal Products
Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Fruits and Vegetables
Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Grains, Feed, Oilseeds, and Planting Seeds
Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Processed Foods
Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Sweeteners and Sweetener Products
Agricultural Technical Advisory Committee for Trade in Tobacco, Cotton, and Peanuts
Congress established the advisory committee system in 1974 to ensure a private-sector voice in establishing U.S. agricultural trade policy objectives to reflect U.S. commercial and economic interests. USDA and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative jointly manage the committees.
The Agricultural Policy Advisory Committee provides advice and information to the Secretary of Agriculture and the U.S. Trade Representative on the administration of trade policy, including enforcement of existing trade agreements and negotiating objectives for new trade agreements. The Agricultural Technical Advisory Committees offer technical advice and information about specific commodities and products.
The appointees will serve until June 15, 2023, and the committees will be supplemented by additional appointments over the next four years. Individuals are encouraged to apply for committee membership at any time and applications will be reviewed periodically. More information about the committees is available at http://www.fas.usda.gov/atacs.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on President Trump’s Agricultural Biotechnology Executive Order
06/11/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive Order on Modernizing the Regulatory Framework for Agricultural Biotechnology Products:
“I welcome President Trump’s Executive Order to modernize our regulatory framework for agricultural biotechnology products. American farmers have made the United States an agricultural powerhouse through these safe and effective innovations. Unfortunately, many of our key trading partners maintain unfair trade barriers to U.S. agricultural exports of products developed through biotechnology. In response to the President’s order, USTR will convene the Trade Policy Staff Committee as soon as possible to develop an international strategy to reduce barriers overseas to U.S. agricultural biotechnology products.”
Background on the Executive Order
On June 11, 2019, President Trump signed an Executive Order, “Modernizing the Regulatory Framework for Agricultural Biotechnology Products.” The goal of this Executive Order is to ensure that the U.S. regulatory system facilitates access to new and innovative biotechnologies by U.S. farmers and ranchers. The Executive Order also recognizes that agricultural products developed using such biotechnologies face unjustified trade barriers and directs USTR to coordinate the development of an international trade strategy to remove these barriers and expand our access to foreign markets.


Joint Statement of the United States — Uruguay Trade and Investment Council
06/13/2019
Washington, D.C. – Today the United States and Uruguay concluded the eighth meeting of the Bilateral Trade and Investment Council. The Trade and Investment Council was established under the 2007 Trade and Investment Framework Agreement between the two countries.
The Uruguay delegation was led by Ambassador Ana Teresa Ayala, General Director for International Economic Affairs of the Ministry for External Relations. The U.S. delegation was led by John Melle, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for the Western Hemisphere.
Officials discussed a broad range of trade and investment issues, and shared perspectives on their respective trade initiatives and possible bilateral opportunities. Key issues included trade facilitation, regulatory barriers to trade, agricultural issues including agricultural biotechnology, investment and trade in services, and intellectual property protection.
The next meeting of the Trade and Investment Council is planned for 2020 in Montevideo.


Public Hearings on Proposed Section 301 Tariff List
06/14/2019
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold public hearings from June 17 to June 21, 2019 and, the following week, from June 24 to June 25, 2019, regarding proposed tariffs on approximately $300 billion worth of Chinese products.
The hearings will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The proposed tariffs are a supplemental action in response to China’s unfair trade practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation, based on the findings in USTR’s investigation of China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.  Tariffs on $250 billion in goods from China are currently in effect under Section 301 trade action.
The Federal Register notice publishing the proposed tariff list and soliciting public comment can be viewed here.
The public hearings will be held at the following times: 
Monday, June 17, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Tuesday, June 18, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Wednesday, June 19, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Thursday, June 20, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Friday, June 21, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Monday, June 24, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM EDT
Tuesday, June 25, 2019 from 9:30 AM – 4:00 PM EDT
Click here to view a schedule of witnesses.


Joint Statement on the U.S.-Iraq Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Council Meeting
06/14/2019
Washington, D.C. – On the 14th of June 2019, the second session of the United States-Iraq Trade and Investment Council convened in Washington, D.C., which was established under the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement signed between the two countries in 2005.  The Council was co-chaired by Iraq Minister of Trade Dr. Mohammed Hashim Al-Ani and Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish.
During the meeting, Iraq and the United States discussed a range of bilateral trade and investment issues.  U.S.-Iraqi cooperation in these areas aims at further integrating Iraq into the global economy and seeking ways to promote greater reciprocal market access, thereby creating jobs and attracting investment to both countries.  In this regard, the United States expressed its support for Iraq’s decision to reengage in the accession process of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and to undertake the domestic reforms required to conform to WTO obligations and liberalize tariffs and trade in services. The United States also expressed its support for the decision by Iraq to accept tax declarations prepared according to international financial standards.
To attract foreign direct investment in priority areas, Iraq acknowledged the need for a strong, appropriate, and suitable investment environment with transparent regulations.  Iraq has assured the United States that it will issue 12-month multiple entry visas to U.S. citizens and facilitate visits by the National Investment Commission for U.S. investors through granting 6-month multiple entry visas via a visa-issuing special office located at the airport.  In the meantime, the Commission is working on implementing a single window system to facilitate and streamline procedures, and working with the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank to improve Iraqi banks’ performance and furthering their support to small and medium projects.
Furthermore, the Government of Iraq is working with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to implement the single-window system for business registration that could reduce challenges encountered by investors.   
To improve bilateral and reciprocal market access, the United States raised the issue of reducing unnecessary documentation requirements and using international standards.  The United States also encouraged Iraq to reduce its tariff on poultry.  Iraq and the United States also discussed rice and wheat imports and the transparency of Iraq’s grain tendering process under two memoranda of understanding.  To increase purchases of medicines, medical devices, and equipment, Iraq and the United States are collaborating on a memorandum of understanding. 
Both governments committed to make progress in advance of the next Council meeting.


Opening Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer to the Senate Finance Committee
06/18/2019
AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER:  
Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Wyden, and Members of the Committee: It’s a pleasure to appear before you today to testify on the President’s Trade Agenda and the newly-renegotiated United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
I would like to begin by noting that the United States’ economy has added 5.8 million jobs since the 2016 election. Notably, nearly 500,000 have been manufacturing jobs. The real GDP rose at annual rate of 3.1 percent in the first quarter of 2019. The past four quarters have seen the fastest growth rate in GDP since 2015. The unemployment rate at 3.6 percent is the lowest rate in nearly a half century and has been at or below 4 percent for 15 consecutive months. Wages are up; hourly wages were up some 3.1 percent over the last 12 months.
I commend this report right here to the Committee – it’s the Trade Policy Agenda and the 2018 Annual Report to the Committee – it’s one of the subjects of this hearing. The document which USTR put out recently outlines the Administration’s trade priorities and catalogues recent accomplishments.
As most of you know, the President is troubled by huge and persistent trade deficits, which the United States has with many countries. These deficits are the result of many factors – faster economic growth, currency valuations, and to some extent, tax policy, but they are also partially the result of trade rules that often times are unfair and lock in non-economic advantages for our trading partners.
We at USTR are very much focused on changing these rules where they are unfair to American farmers, ranchers, workers, and businesses. This has included renegotiating KORUS, which you are aware, and NAFTA, which you have just discussed and will discuss further. We also have been reviewing GSP eligibility; actively engaging in TIFA talks with many, many countries – we can talk about that; and reviewing the rules and functions of the WTO.  USTR has also been active in enforcing the existing obligations of our trading partners. We’ve brought many WTO cases. We’ve filed counter notifications at the WTO and worked with other WTO members on a proposal to improve compliance with the existing WTO notification obligations.
We are also engaged directly with trading partners under existing agreements. For example, we have successfully resolved concerns with Peru after requesting the first-ever environmental consultations in the U.S.-Peru trade promotion agreement. In addition, we have used Section 301 to investigate unfair trade practices in China. We believe our economic relationship with China has been unbalanced and grossly unfair to American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses for decades. As many Members know, after an exhaustive process, we put tariffs on certain Chinese products and are preparing to do more if certain issues cannot be resolved satisfactorily. 
Finally, I am pleased to be able to testify here today on the newly-renegotiated USMCA. We have worked very closely with Members throughout this process, and many of the improvements in this Agreement reflect Republican and Democratic Members’ ideas and thoughts. In short, I believe the USMCA is the strongest, most momentous trade agreement in U.S. history. It is the gold standard for rules on the digital economy, financial services, intellectual property, etc. It will help stop the outflow of manufacturing jobs and return many to the United States. Its labor and environmental provisions are the most far-reaching ever in a trade agreement. The agricultural chapter will lead to increased market access and eliminate unfair trading practices by our trading partners.
This is a truly great agreement, and I look forward to working with Members to make it even better and to write implementing legislation which will earn large, bipartisan support – and that’s my objective, I’ve said it from the beginning, my objective was to get a very large number of Democrats and Republicans to support this.
With that, Mr. Chairman, I will stop. Thank you again for the courtesy you and the other Members have shown towards me during this two-plus years as USTR, and I look forward to your questions.


USTR Robert Lighthizer: USMCA Ratification by Mexico ‘Crucial Step Forward’
06/19/2019
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement after Mexico’s Senate ratified the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) today:
“The USMCA is the strongest and most advanced trade agreement ever negotiated. It is good for the United States, Mexico, and Canada in a way that truly benefits our workers, farmers, and businesses. The USMCA’s ratification by Mexico is a crucial step forward, and I congratulate President López Obrador and the Mexican Senate on this historic achievement.”


Joint Statement on the 13th Joint Council Meeting under U.S.-Sri Lanka Trade and Investment Framework
06/21/2019
Colombo, Sri Lanka – The 13th U.S.-Sri Lanka Trade and Investment Framework (TIFA) Joint Council Meeting was held on June 19 & 20, 2019 in Colombo, Sri Lanka. The meeting was inaugurated by Hon. Malik Samarawickrama, Minister of Development Strategies & International Trade, and Assistant United States Trade Representative (AUSTR), Mr. Christopher Wilson. At the outset, AUSTR Wilson extended his condolences to Minister Samarawickrama and the Government of Sri Lanka for the Easter Sunday terror attacks and emphasized that the United States is committed to further developing a fair and reciprocal U.S.-Sri Lanka trade and economic relationship.
The U.S. Delegation expressed its deep appreciation for the hospitality extended by the Government of Sri Lanka during its stay in Colombo, while the Sri Lankan Government was pleased to host this round of talks. The two sides had productive engagement on a number of areas such as market access and reforming of Sri Lanka’s trade and investment regime, including its compliance with the WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation and strengthening of intellectual property rights and effective enforcement, encouraging development and innovation in the digital economy, government procurement, and trade capacity building with an emphasis on the economic empowerment of women. In a showing of the comprehensive and fruitful nature of the meetings, the delegations also made progress in discussions on certain labor and environmental concerns.
At the conclusion of the Joint Council Meeting, both delegations assessed the results of their engagement as a significant step forward in increasing bilateral trade and investment opportunities between the United States and Sri Lanka. It was noted that the TIFA, which has continued over 13 years as a broad platform for discussion and resolution of bilateral economic issues, remained to be further developed in order to achieve the fuller potential of bilateral trade and investment relations.
Both governments pledged their commitment to continue productive engagement in the future.


USTR Announces Reallocation of Unused Fiscal Year 2019 WTO Tariff-Rate Quota Volume for Raw Cane Sugar
06/25/2019
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the reallocation of the unused country-specific and first-come, first-served in-quota allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported raw cane sugar for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 (October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019).
TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On June 29, 2018, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity for raw cane sugar for FY 2019.  The in-quota quantity for the TRQ on raw cane sugar FY 2019 is 1,117,195 metric tons raw value (MTRV), which is the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement.  On July 17, 2018, USTR provided notice of country-by-country allocations of the FY 2019 in-quota quantity of the WTO TRQ for imported raw cane sugar.  Based on consultation with quota holders, USTR has determined to reallocate 100,071 MTRV of the original TRQ quantity from those countries that have stated they do not plan to fill their FY 2019 allocated raw cane sugar quantities.  USTR is allocating the 100,071 MTRV to the following countries in the amounts specified below:
Country	FY 2019 Raw Sugar Unused Reallocation (MTRV)
Argentina	6,662
Australia	12,859
Barbados	300
Belize	1,704
Bolivia	1,239
Brazil	22,464
Colombia	3,718
Costa Rica	2,324
El Salvador	4,028
Fiji	1,394
Guatemala	7,437
Guyana	1,859
Honduras	1,549
India	1,239
Jamaica	1,704
Malawi	1,549
Mauritius	1,859
Mozambique	2,014
Nicaragua	3,254
Panama	4,493
Peru	6,352
South Africa	3,563
Swaziland	2,479
Thailand	2,169
Zimbabwe	1,859
These allocations are based on the countries’ historical shipments to the United States. The allocations of the raw cane sugar WTO TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country for which an allocation has been provided.
Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


Joint Statement on the Results of the Meeting of the United States-Maldives Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Joint Council
06/25/2019
Malé, Maldives (June 23, 2019) – Delegations from the governments of the Republic of Maldives and the United States met in Malé, Maldives for the latest round of talks under the United States-Maldives Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) Joint Council.
The meeting was co-chaired by Minister Fayyaz Ismail from the Maldivian Ministry of Economic Development, and Assistant United States Trade Representative Christopher Wilson, who led an interagency U.S. government delegation.
The Maldivian and U.S. delegations diligently worked through a full agenda that included not only productive meetings to further strengthen fair and reciprocal trade under the TIFA, but also engagement with Maldivian and American businesses.
In the Joint Council meeting, Minister Fayyaz Ismail signaled his government’s strong desire to continue the strong relationship with the U.S. government, including access to the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences program. The two sides were also able to make progress on issues related to the protection of intellectual property rights, the unique environmental concerns of the island nation, workers’ rights, and labor conditions within the Maldives, and agreed that the governments would continue to cooperate on these issues.
Discussions were also held on improving the investment climate and compliance with the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement, including assistance that the Maldives may require in implementing the Agreement. Reforms to government procurement processes, trade capacity building, and responsible business conduct were also discussed.
Both Minister Fayyaz Ismail and Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Wilson acknowledged the positive trends in bilateral trade between the two countries, with two-way trade increasing by nearly 30 percent from 2013-2018 to $63 million, and hailed the talks as another step forward in ensuring fair trade between the partners.



USTR Proposes Additional Products for Tariff Countermeasures in Response to Harm Caused by EU Aircraft Subsidies
07/01/2019
Today, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative is issuing for public comment a supplemental list of products that could potentially be subject to additional duties in order to enforce U.S. rights in the World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute against the European Union (EU) and certain EU member States regarding EU subsidies on large civil aircraft. 
This supplemental list adds 89 tariff subheadings with an approximate trade value of $4 billion to the initial list published on April 12, which included tariff subheadings with an approximate trade value of $21 billion. USTR is adding to the initial list with the supplemental list in response to public comments and additional analysis. 
In the event the Arbitrator issues its decision prior to completion of the public comment process on the supplemental list, the USTR may immediately impose increased duties on the products included in the initial list, and take further possible actions with respect to products on the supplemental list. 
The supplemental list, as well as the schedule for a public hearing and written comments, are set out in a notice that will be published shortly in the Federal Register. 


USTR Pursues Competition-Related Concerns Under the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement
07/09/2019
Seoul, Korea – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today led formal consultations with the Republic of Korea under the chapter on Competition-Related Matters (Chapter 16) of the United States-Republic of Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS).  The United States is calling for actions by Korea to improve procedures in competition hearings held by the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC).  These shortcomings have denied U.S. parties certain rights, including the opportunity to review and rebut the evidence against them.  
At issue is Korea’s non-compliance with KORUS Article 16.1.3, which states, in relevant part, that a party in an administrative hearing related to competition must “have a reasonable opportunity to... review and rebut the evidence and any other collected information on which the determination may be based.”  Following extensive efforts to resolve this concern, USTR requested formal consultations in March of 2019.  
Michael Beeman, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Japan, Korea and APEC led the consultation and called for immediate action by Korea to come into compliance with KORUS. Currently pending amendments to Korea's "Monopoly Regulations and Fair Trade Act" fail to address U.S. concerns that KFTC hearings continue to deny U.S. firms due process rights under the KORUS agreement that are necessary to secure a fair competition hearing in Korea.

Background:
The United States has been raising, including through multiple meetings, letters and formal comments, concerns with restrictive KFTC hearing procedures regarding a respondent’s lack of access to evidence, including evidence used to bring allegations against it.  However, the Korean Government’s proposed changes to access to evidence procedures in KFTC hearings, reflected in draft amendments to the “Monopoly Regulations and Fair Trade Act,” do not rectify the problem, address the United States’ concerns, or comply with KORUS obligations.  USTR seeks changes from Korea necessary to meet the KORUS obligation while protecting business confidential information and other appropriate materials from disclosure to third parties.
Click here for further information in the March 15, 2019, USTR request calling for consultations under the KORUS Competition Chapter.


USTR Announces Initiation of Section 301 Investigation into France’s Digital Services Tax
07/10/2019
Washington, DC – On July 10, 2019, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 of the Digital Services Tax (DST) of the Government of France.
The French DST bill would impose a 3% tax on total annual revenues generated by some companies from providing certain digital services to, or aimed at, French users.  The tax applies only to companies with total annual revenues from the covered services of at least €750 million globally and €25 million in France.  The services covered are ones where U.S. firms are global leaders.  The structure of the proposed new tax as well as statements by officials suggest that France is unfairly targeting the tax at certain U.S.-based technology companies.
“The United States is very concerned that the digital services tax which is expected to pass the French Senate tomorrow unfairly targets American companies,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “The President has directed that we investigate the effects of this legislation and determine whether it is discriminatory or unreasonable and burdens or restricts United States commerce.”
Section 301 and related provisions of the Trade Act (codified as amended in 19 U.S.C. §§ 2411-2417) give the USTR broad authority to investigate and respond to a foreign country’s unfair trade practices.  USTR will issue a Federal Register Notice providing information on how members of the public may provide their views through written submissions and a public hearing. 
The United States will continue its efforts with other countries at the OECD to reach a multilateral agreement to address the challenges to the international tax system posed by an increasingly digitized global economy.


USTR Announces Fiscal Year 2020 WTO Tariff-Rate Quota Allocations for Raw Cane Sugar, Refined and Specialty Sugar and Sugar-Containing Products
07/12/2019
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the country-specific and first-come, first-served in-quota allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported raw cane sugar, refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 (October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020).  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On June 27, 2019, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity for raw cane sugar for FY 2020. The in-quota quantity for the TRQ on raw cane sugar for FY 2020 is 1,117,195 metric tons raw value (MTRV), which is the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement.  The Office of the United State Trade Representative (USTR) is allocating the raw cane sugar TRQ of 1,117,195 MTRV to the following countries in the quantities specified below:                 
Country	FY 2020 Raw Cane Sugar allocations (MTRV)
Argentina	45,281
Australia	87,402
Barbados	7,371
Belize	11,584
Bolivia	8,424
Brazil	152,691
Colombia	25,273
Congo (Brazzaville)	7,258
Costa Rica	15,796
Cote d’Ivoire	7,258
Dominican Republic	185,335
Ecuador	11,584
El Salvador	27,379
Fiji	9,477
Gabon	7,258
Guatemala	50,546
Guyana	12,636
Haiti	7,258
Honduras	10,530
India	8,424
Jamaica	11,584
Madagascar	7,258
Malawi	10,530
Mauritius	12,636
Mexico	7,258
Mozambique	13,690
Nicaragua	22,114
Panama	30,538
Papua New Guinea	7,258
Paraguay	7,258
Peru	43,175
Philippines	142,160
South Africa	24,220
St. Kitts & Nevis	7,258
Swaziland	16,849
Taiwan	12,636
Thailand	14,743
Trinidad & Tobago	7,371
Uruguay	7,258
Zimbabwe	12,636
These allocations are based on each country’s historical shipments to the United States.  The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country to which an allocation is provided.
On June 27, 2019, USDA also announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity of the FY 2020 refined sugar TRQ at 192,000 MTRV for which the sucrose content, by weight in the dry state, must have a polarimeter reading of 99.5 degrees or more.  This amount includes the minimum level to which the United States is committed under the WTO Uruguay Round Agreement - 22,000 MTRV of which 1,656 MTRV is reserved for specialty sugar - and an additional 170,000 MTRV for specialty sugars.  USTR is allocating the refined sugar TRQ as follows: 10,300 MTRV of refined sugar to Canada, 2,954 MTRV to Mexico, and 7,090 MTRV to be administered on a first-come, first-served basis.
Imports of all specialty sugar will be administered on a first-come, first-served basis in five tranches.  USDA has announced that the total in-quota quantity of specialty sugar will be the 1,656 MTRV included in the WTO minimum plus an additional 170,000 MTRV.  The first tranche of 1,656 MTRV will open October 1, 2019.  All types of specialty sugars are eligible for entry under this tranche.  The second tranche of 50,000 MTRV will open on October 9, 2019.  The third tranche of 50,000 MTRV will open on January 22, 2020.  The fourth tranche of 35,000 MTRV will open on April 15, 2020.  The fifth tranche of 35,000 MTRV will open on July 15, 2020.  The second, third, fourth and fifth tranches will be reserved for organic sugar and other specialty sugars not currently produced commercially in the United States or reasonably available from domestic sources.
With respect to the in-quota quantity of 64,709 MTRV of the TRQ for imports of certain sugar-containing products maintained under Additional U.S. Note 8 to chapter 17 of the HTS, USTR is allocating 59,250 MTRV to Canada.  The remainder, 5,459 MTRV, of the in-quota quantity is available for other countries on a first-come, first-served basis.
Raw cane sugar, refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for FY 2020 TRQs may enter the United States as of October 1, 2019.
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


Sixth Meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group
07/15/2019
On July 8, Secretary of State for International Trade Dr. Liam Fox MP and United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer met in Washington, DC and discussed the ongoing work of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group.
On July 10-11, the UK and United States held the sixth meeting of the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group in London, which focused on strengthening our trade and investment relationship; laying the groundwork for a potential future trade agreement once the UK leaves the EU; and cooperating on global issues.
Since the Working Group last met in November 2018, USTR published its negotiating objectives for a trade agreement with the UK.  At the Working Group, the UK restated its commitment to publishing its own negotiating objectives, scoping assessment and response to the public consultation before negotiations begin.
The Working Group discussed the progress made in recent months to ensure continuity of trade between our two countries as the UK leaves the EU, notably the signature of Agreements on Mutual Recognition, Marine Equipment, Wine and Distilled Spirits. In addition, both sides signed a bilateral agreement regarding insurance and reinsurance in December 2018.  
The Working Group’s discussions covered a range of trade topics including services; financial services; procurement; agriculture; sustainability/labor, environment; trade remedies; industrial subsidies; intellectual property; anti-corruption and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME).
In addition to the Working Group, the UK and the United States held the fourth meeting of the U.S.-UK SME Dialogue in Bristol on July 9. The discussion focused on opportunities presented by emerging technologies for services and digital trade; the obstacles SMEs currently face in trading between the UK and U.S.; and how these obstacles can be reduced, including through a potential future trade agreement. With more than 80 stakeholders in attendance, SMEs participated in a best practice exchange on doing business in the U.S. and the UK in the areas of artificial intelligence, virtual reality and mobile applications. This meeting followed the first sectoral-focused dialogue for marine technology SMEs in Southampton, UK in April 2019 and the participation of the UK in the May 11 Americas Competiveness Exchange (ACE).
Both sides agreed to hold the fifth SME Dialogue in the United States in early 2020. The U.S. and UK also agreed to explore a second SME best practices exchange in marine technology towards the end of 2019.  Lastly, an invitation was extended to the UK for the 13th ACE forum for 2020. 
Background
• The Working Group was established in July 2017 by UK Secretary of State for International Trade Dr Liam Fox MP and United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer. Since its inception, the Working Group has been laying the groundwork for an ambitious and wide-ranging potential future free trade agreement once the UK has left the EU, as well as ensuring commercial continuity for UK and US businesses, workers, and consumers.
• The Working Group delegations were led by officials from the UK Department for International Trade (DIT) and USTR. It also included representatives from a wide range of UK and U.S. Government departments and agencies.
• Total trade between the two countries is already worth about $262 billion a year. We are each other’s largest source of foreign direct investment and, according to U.S. statistics, the UK and U.S. have around $1 trillion invested in each other’s economies. Every day around one million Americans go to work for UK firms, while around one million Britons go to work for American firms.


Statement on WTO Appellate Report on China Countervailing Duties
07/16/2019
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative today released the following statement on the WTO appellate report on countervailing duty measures on certain products from China:
Today’s appellate report recognizes that the United States has proved that China uses State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) to subsidize and distort its economy.  Nonetheless, the majority in the report says that the United States must use distorted Chinese prices to measure subsidies, unless the U.S. provides even more analysis than the hundreds of pages in these investigations.  This conclusion ignores the findings of the World Bank, OECD working papers, economic surveys, and other objective evidence, all cited by the United States.
The WTO appellate report undermines WTO rules, making them less effective to counteract Chinese SOE subsidies that are harming U.S. workers and businesses and distorting markets worldwide. 
This report also illustrates the concerns the United States has been raising about the Appellate Body’s functioning, including adding to WTO Member obligations and diminishing their rights, exceeding the mandatory 90-day deadline for reports, permitting individuals to continue to serve on appeals past the end of their terms, engaging in fact-finding on appeal, and treating prior reports as precedent. 
The United States is determined to take all necessary steps to ensure a level playing field so that China and its SOEs stop injuring U.S. workers and businesses.


Statement on the United States – Jordan Free Trade Agreement Joint Committee Meeting
07/17/2019
The United States-Jordan Joint Committee, established under the 2001 Free Trade Agreement (FTA), met on July 14, 2019, in Amman, Jordan to promote increased bilateral trade and investment in both goods and services. The meeting was co-chaired by L. Daniel Mullaney, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative, and Yousef Al Shamali, Secretary General Ministry of Trade and Investment.
During the meeting, the United States and Jordan discussed a range of bilateral trade and investment issues, noting positively the increase in bilateral trade during 2018. Officials focused on ways to promote greater reciprocal market access for agricultural and industrial goods, including with respect to technical standards and regulations and food safety measures, as well as Jordanian labor reforms, improved IP protection and implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement.  
The United States also expressed a willingness to explore further technical assistance in Jordan with the aim of promoting enhanced trade and investment.
Both governments agreed to strive to make additional progress in advance of the next Joint Committee meeting, to be held in Washington in 2020.


United States and Thailand Discuss Fair and Reciprocal Engagement on Trade, Importance of Resolving Priority Issues
07/22/2019
Bangkok, Thailand – The United States and Thailand met today under the U.S.-Thailand Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) to discuss the bilateral trade relationship, including the importance of Thailand taking action to reduce the U.S. trade in goods deficit and address the pressing trade concerns at the heart of the ongoing Generalized System of Preferences reviews of pork market access and worker rights in Thailand.
The two sides reaffirmed the importance of working together to strengthen the trade relationship and agreed to continue their dialogue on the full range of issues. The United States updated Thailand on the Trump Administration’s trade policy. Thailand updated the United States on its priorities as chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the East Asia Summit (EAS) this year.  The United States raised issues related to agriculture, customs, intellectual property protection and enforcement, and labor. 
Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Southeast Asia and Pacific Affairs Karl Ehlers co-chaired the meeting for the United States. Other U.S. officials included representatives from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of State, and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
Ministry of Commerce Director General Auramon Supthaweethum co-chaired the meeting for Thailand, which included representatives from the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Thai Food and Drug Administration, the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Digital Economy, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Background
The United States and Thailand have strong trade ties, which extend back to the 1833 U.S.-Thailand Treaty of Amity and Economic Relations. Thailand is the United States’ 20th largest goods trading partner, and two-way goods trade between them totaled $44.5 billion in 2018. The U.S. goods trade deficit with Thailand was $19.3 billion in 2018.


USTR Announces Enforcement Action to Block Illegal Timber Imports from Peru
07/26/2019
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today directed the United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to block future timber imports from Inversiones WCA E.I.R.L. (WCA), a Peruvian exporter, based on illegally harvested timber found in its supply chain.  This marks the second time that the Trump Administration has taken such an enforcement action under the United States – Peru Trade Promotion Agreement’s (PTPA) Annex on Forest Sector Governance (Forest Annex), demonstrating its intensified efforts to keep illegal timber out of the United States. 
This action is being taken by the Interagency Committee on Trade in Timber Products from Peru (Timber Committee).  Further, it is the result of a request that the Timber Committee made to Peru in February 2018 to verify that three specific timber shipments from Peru to the United States complied with all applicable Peruvian laws and regulations.  The request was made in the context of continued concerns about the practice of illegal logging in Peru.  The timber verification process was conducted by the Government of Peru and revealed that one shipment from WCA was not harvested and traded in compliance with Peru’s laws, regulations, and other measures.  Since the completion of the report in July 2018, Peru has failed to take enforcement action against WCA. 
“President Trump is committed to ensuring that our trading partners live up to their obligations,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “Peru must increase its efforts to combat illegal logging. The United States is doing our part by enforcing our trade agreement and ensuring that illegally-harvested timber cannot be exported to our country.”
Background
The PTPA contains a unique Environment Chapter and Forest Annex, which includes a requirement for Peru to conduct audits of particular timber producers and exporters, and upon request from the United States, perform verifications of particular shipments of wood products from Peru. Further, the Agreement provides an illustrative list of actions the United States may take with respect to the shipment or enterprise that is the subject of the verification.  Based on the results of Peru’s verification and ongoing monitoring of the situation, the Timber Committee has directed that CBP deny entry to products and exports of WCA for three years, or until the Timber Committee determines that WCA has complied with all applicable laws, regulations, and other measures of Peru governing the harvest of and trade in timber products, whichever is shorter.
In October 2017, the Trump Administration took a similar action to deny entry of timber products and exports by another Peruvian company, Inversiones Oroza (Oroza), after Peru was unable to verify that the shipment subject to investigation under the PTPA complied with all applicable Peruvian laws and regulations.  The CBP denial of entry order against Oroza is still in force.  In order to enhance implementation of the Oroza and WCA denial of entry orders, USTR has requested that CBP conduct additional due diligence to better identify and deny entry of products and exports of both companies prior to entry into the United States.
While the Forest Annex has catalyzed meaningful reforms in Peru’s forestry sector, the verification process has repeatedly highlighted the systemic challenges that remain in combatting illegal logging in Peru.  In November 2016, the Government of Peru announced a set of unilateral actions to address ongoing challenges, including holding all of the relevant actors involved in illegal logging accountable, amending export documentation requirements to improve traceability, enhancing timber inspections, and implementing a timber tracking system in the Amazon corridor.  However, significant work remains for Peru to address its ongoing challenges to combat illegal logging.  The United States and Peru continue to engage in a cooperative and meaningful way to combat illegal logging and work towards improving forest sector governance.  USTR and the Timber Committee will continue to monitor closely Peru’s implementation of the commitments in the Environment Chapter.  
For additional information on the PTPA Forest Annex, please click here.


USTR Robert Lighthizer Statement on the President’s Memorandum on Reforming Developing-Country Status in the WTO
07/26/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today released the following statement on President Trump’s directive regarding the use of special and differential treatment at the World Trade Organization (WTO):
“For far too long, wealthy countries have abused the WTO by exempting themselves from its rules through the use of special and differential treatment. This unfairness disadvantages Americans who play by the rules, undermines negotiations at the WTO, and creates an unlevel playing field. I applaud the President’s leadership in demanding fairness and accountability at the WTO, and I look forward to implementing the President’s directive.”


United States and Morocco Meet in FTA Joint Committee
07/29/2019
Rabat, Morocco – Delegations from the United States and Morocco met in Rabat on July 16, 2019 in the sixth meeting of the Joint Committee that oversees implementation of the U.S.-Morocco Free Trade Agreement (FTA), which came into force in 2006. 
During the meeting, U.S. and Moroccan officials reviewed a wide range of issues currently or potentially hindering the expansion of bilateral trade and investment. The United States updated Morocco on the Trump Administration’s trade policy. Morocco promoted its potential as a regional hub, particularly with respect to trade with Sub-Saharan Africa, and its interest in attracting more U.S. business partners.  
The delegations highlighted work in the Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary FTA Sub-committees since the fifth meeting of the Joint Committee in October 2017. These efforts notably have resulted in the confirmation of new access to the Moroccan market for U.S. poultry and beef. Officials also discussed how to make progress in several other areas, including customs, intellectual property protection and enforcement, the environment, and labor. The two sides reaffirmed the importance of working together to strengthen the trade relationship and agreed to continued exchanges in several areas, including Morocco’s protection of geographical indications and Moroccan tax treatment of certain products imported from the United States.
The U.S. delegation was led by Assistant United States Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East Dan Mullaney and included representatives from USTR, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of State. 
The Moroccan delegation was led by Minister of Industry, Investment, Trade and Digital Economy Moulay Hafid Elalamy and included representatives from the Ministries of: Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation; Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural Development, Water, and Forests; Labor and Vocational Training; Economy and Finance (including the Customs and Excise Administration); Energy, Mines, and Sustainable Development; and Health.  Additional organizations represented included: the National Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises; the Investments and Exports Development Agency; the Office of Industrial and Commercial Property; and the Exchange Office.
Background
The U.S. goods trade surplus with Morocco was $1.4 billion in 2018, a 39.8 percent increase ($393 million) over 2017. U.S. goods exports to Morocco were $2.9 billion, up 32.7 percent ($725 million) from the previous year. Morocco was the United States’ 54th largest goods export market in 2018.  U.S. imports from Morocco in 2018 were $1.6 billion, up 27.0 percent. U.S. exports of services to Morocco were an estimated $634 million in 2017 (latest data available) and U.S. imports were $832 million. 


United States and European Union Sign Breakthrough Agreement on U.S. Beef Access to EU
08/02/2019
Washington, DC – The United States will be able to nearly triple its annual duty-free exports of beef to the European Union (EU) over the next seven years under a new agreement signed today at the White House.
American ranchers will be guaranteed a bigger share of Europe’s beef market, with annual duty-free exports expected to grow from $150 million to $420 million when the agreement is fully implemented.
“American ranchers produce the best beef in the world. Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, this new agreement ensures that American ranchers can sell more of that beef to Europe,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, who signed the agreement with the Honorable Jani Raappana of Finland, representing the Presidency of the EU, and Ambassador Stavros Lambrinidis of the Delegation of the EU. 
The new agreement negotiated by the Trump Administration establishes a duty-free tariff rate quota (TRQ) exclusively for the United States. Under the agreement, American ranchers will have an initial TRQ of 18,500 metric tons annually, valued at approximately $220 million.  Over seven years, the TRQ will grow to 35,000 metric tons annually, valued at approximately $420 million.
Under the current agreement, U.S. duty-free beef exports to the EU are only approximately 13,000 metric tons annually, valued at approximately $150 million, and risked declines going forward.
Background
In 2016, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, U.S. Meat Export Federation, and the North American Meat Institute requested the U.S. Trade Representative to take tariff action under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 to enforce the World Trade Organization dispute finding in favor of the United States against the EU’s ban on the use of hormones in cattle production. USTR held a public hearing on February 15, 2017.  
Negotiations resulted in a new agreement, which was approved by the European Council on July 15, 2019. It will go into effect following the European Parliament’s approval, which is expected this fall. With the EU providing a country specific duty-free quota for U.S. beef, the United States has agreed as a part of the agreement signed today to conclude the proceedings under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 initiated in December 2016. 


Ambassador C.J. Mahoney to lead U.S. Delegation at 2019 African Growth and Opportunity Act Forum
08/02/2019
Washington, DC – Deputy United States Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney will lead the U.S. delegation at the 2019 African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Forum, held August 5-6, 2019 in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire.
The annual forum provides a platform for promoting stronger economic ties between the United States and qualifying sub-Saharan African countries that receive enhanced U.S. market access under AGOA. 
The theme of this year’s Forum is “AGOA and the Future:  Developing a New Paradigm to Guide U.S.-Africa Trade and Investment.” The 2019 AGOA Forum brings together African and American government officials, civil society representatives, and private sector leaders to discuss current trade and investment relations and possibilities for future engagement. The two-day ministerial forum will be preceded by meetings on August 4 that will include representatives from the private sector and civil society.
Led by Ambassador Mahoney, the U.S. delegation will include senior officials from the U.S. Departments of State, Commerce, Labor, and Treasury, as well as other U.S. government agencies, Members of Congress and staff.


Public Hearing on Additional Products for Proposed Tariff Countermeasures in Response to Harm Caused by EU Aircraft Subsidies
08/02/2019
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold a public hearing from 9:30 AM – 4:30 PM EST on August 5, 2019 regarding proposed action to enforce U.S. rights in the World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute against harmful subsidies to large civil aircraft by the European Union (EU) or certain EU member States.
The hearing will take place in the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
In April, the USTR began its process under Section 301 of Trade Act of 1974 to identify products of the EU to which additional duties may be applied until the EU removes those subsidies. The USTR and the Section 301 Committee invited comments from the public and received testimony from more than 40 witnesses at a public hearing on May 15-16 on proposed tariffs on products of the EU or certain member States.
In July, the Section 301 Committee invited comments on a supplemental list of products of the EU or EU member states that could potentially be subject to additional duties. The Federal Register notice publishing the proposed supplemental list of products of the EU or certain member States to which additional duties may be applied can be viewed here.
The WTO has found repeatedly that EU subsidies to Airbus have caused adverse effects to the United States. USTR estimates the EU subsidies cause approximately $11 billion of harm in trade to the United States per year. The amount of countermeasures the United States is authorized to impose is currently subject to arbitration at the WTO, the result of which is expected to be issued this year. 
Click here to view the witness list.


Remarks of Ambassador C.J. Mahoney at the 2019 AGOA Forum in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire
08/05/2019
Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire– Deputy United States Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney delivered the following remarks at the opening ceremony of the 2019 African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Forum:
Good morning President Ouattara, esteemed Ministers and heads of delegations from our AGOA Partner Countries, Secretaries-General and Commissioners of the Regional Economic Communities and the African Union, Members of our Congressional delegation, my fellow colleagues from the U.S. Government, honored delegates and invited guests, welcome to the 18th AGOA Ministerial.
It is a pleasure to be here in Côte d’Ivoire, and I would like to start by first expressing Ambassador Lighthizer’s regret that he is unable to attend. He was greatly looking forward to participating in his third AGOA Forum, but unfortunately was not able to make the trip this year.  Ambassador Lighthizer did want me to convey however a warm welcome on his behalf, and his wishes for a productive meeting.
The changes in Africa and in the global trade policy landscape since AGOA was first enacted in 2000 have been profound.  Today, Africa is more prosperous, more developed, and more interconnected with the global economy than ever before.  Africa contains some of the fastest growing economies in the world that have resulted in a rapidly expanding middle class. The recent launch of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement in May of this year is a remarkable achievement. We congratulate the African Union and its Member States for this achievement. 
The AfCFTA lays the groundwork for greater competitiveness, trade diversification, and economic growth. For twenty years, AGOA has supported these same objectives, including lowering barriers to trade and investment, boosting competitiveness and attracting investment, diversifying trade, and helping countries move up the value chain. The United States has played an important role in supporting Africa’s regional integration goals through our long history of trade capacity building on the continent.
I am pleased to announce that the United States and the African Union will partner together to support the ongoing negotiation and implementation of the AfCFTA.  Following my remarks, I invite AU Trade Commissioner to join me in signing a joint statement memorializing the commitment of the United States to the AfCFTA and to ensure that it reaches its full potential. During our meetings today, I look forward to learning more about the agreement, and how we can work together to help ensure its success.
Finally, let me note the importance of this year’s Forum theme: “AGOA and the Future:  Developing a New Paradigm to Guide U.S.-Africa Trade and Investment.” It is time we lay the groundwork for an even closer trade and investment partnership. On the U.S. side, we have introduced a variety of new initiatives that will be discussed over the next two days.  We will combine the promise of the AfCFTA with these new U.S. initiatives and help maximize the potential of U.S.-Africa trade. 
We have an opportunity to pursue new, forward-looking initiatives and a vision for the future of U.S.-African trade.  While we remain committed to AGOA, there are limits to what a unilateral trade preference program can achieve.  We hope that, in time, enduring and reciprocal free trade agreements with the United States will serve as a conduit for the investment many African countries desire. Our free trade agreements provide the legal certainty necessary for private sector investments, and we have appreciated the interest many of you have shown in pursuing an FTA  with the United States.
Thank you all for being here. I look forward to sharing more details during the first plenary session, as well as continuing the conversation over the next few days.
Thank you and welcome again.


Joint Statement Between the United States of America and the African Union Concerning the Development of the African Continental Free Trade Area
08/05/2019
Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire – Deputy United States Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney and African Union Commission Commissioner for Trade and Industry Albert Muchanga today signed a joint statement concerning trade between the United States and the African Union at the opening ceremony of the 2019 African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Forum.  The text of the Joint Statement is below:
The United States and the African Union share a common goal of enhancing the African Union’s efforts to increase continental trade and investment under the African Continental Free Trade Area (the “AfCFTA”).
The United States and the African Union share a mutual desire and common goal to deepen dialogue and cooperation on trade and investment matters and to increase trade and investment between the United States of America and Africa.
The United States recognizes the African Union’s expression of interest to work closely together to identify ways the United States can cooperate on the development of the AfCFTA.  The United States recognizes that one of the African Union’s principal aims is to promote sustainable development as well as the integration of African economies.
The United States and the African Union intend to work together with respect to the AfCFTA to promote a sound trade policy environment, regional economies of scale, and the increased flow of goods and services on the continent in order to increase both continental trade and investment, as well as trade and investment between the United States and Africa.
The United States and the African Union intend to jointly identify subject areas related to the ongoing negotiation and implementation of the AfCFTA as subjects for cooperation and for possible technical assistance and capacity building.
The United States and the African Union intend to work together to develop activities that support these priority objectives.
The United States and the African Union share a mutual desire to pursue deeper trade and investment ties beyond the African Growth and Opportunity Act, which is scheduled to expire in 2025, eventually leading to a continental trade partnership between the United States and Africa that supports regional integration.
Signed at Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, August 5, 2019, in the English language.


USTR Announces Next Steps on Proposed 10 Percent Tariff on Imports from China
08/13/2019
Washington, DC - The United States Trade Representative (USTR) today announced the next steps in the process of imposing an additional tariff of 10 percent on approximately $300 billion of Chinese imports. 
On May 17, 2019, USTR published a list of products imported from China that would be potentially subject to an additional 10 percent tariff.  This new tariff will go into effect on September 1 as announced by President Trump on August 1. 
Certain products are being removed from the tariff list based on health, safety, national security and other factors and will not face additional tariffs of 10 percent.
Further, as part of USTR’s public comment and hearing process, it was determined that the tariff should be delayed to December 15 for certain articles.  Products in this group include, for example, cell phones, laptop computers, video game consoles, certain toys, computer monitors, and certain items of footwear and clothing. 
USTR intends to conduct an exclusion process for products subject to the additional tariff.
The USTR will publish in the Federal Register as soon as possible additional details and lists of the tariff lines affected by this announcement.


Public Hearing in the Section 301 Investigation of France’s Digital Services Tax
08/16/2019
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold an off-camera public hearing from 9:30 AM – 1:00 PM EST on August 19, 2019 in the Section 301 Investigation of France’s Digital Services Tax (DST).
The hearing will take place in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 1724 F Street NW, Rooms 1 and 2, Washington, DC 20508.
The French DST law imposes a 3% tax on annual revenues generated by some companies that provide certain digital services to, or aimed at, French users. The tax applies only to companies with annual revenues from the covered services of at least €750 million globally and €25 million in France. The services covered are ones where U.S. firms are global leaders. 
USTR initiated the investigation of France’s Digital Services Tax on July 10, 2019, under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. The Federal Register notice regarding the investigation, comment process, and public hearing can be viewed here.
Click here to view the witness list.


USTR Statement on Section 301 Tariff Action Regarding China
08/23/2019
Washington, DC - Today, China announced it will impose unjustified tariffs targeting U.S. products.  In response to China’s decision, and in order to achieve the objectives of the China Section 301 investigation, President Trump has instructed the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to increase by 5% the tariffs on approximately $550 billion worth of Chinese imports.  For the 25% tariffs on approximately $250 billion worth of Chinese imports, USTR will begin the process of increasing the tariff rate to 30%, effective October 1 following a notice and comment period.  For the 10% tariffs on approximately $300 billion worth of Chinese imports that the President announced earlier this month, the tariffs will now be 15%, effective on the already scheduled dates for tariff increases on these imports. 
USTR will publish in the Federal Register as soon as possible additional details on today’s announcement.    


Joint Media Statement on the AEM-USTR Consultations
09/10/2019
1. The Economic Ministers from all ASEAN Member States (AMS) and the United States Trade Representative (“the Ministers”) held consultations on 9 September 2019 in Bangkok, Thailand. The Consultations were co-chaired by H.E. Jurin Laksanawisit, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce of Thailand and H.E. Jeffrey D. Gerrish, Deputy United States Trade Representative for Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and Industrial Competitiveness (representing H.E. Robert Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative).
2. Based on preliminary ASEAN data, the total merchandise trade between ASEAN and the United States maintained a stable growth of 11.2 per cent, reaching USD 260.6 billion in 2018, while the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows from the United States to ASEAN amounted to USD 8.1 billion. These placed the United States as ASEAN’s third largest trading partner and fourth largest external source of FDI among ASEAN’s Dialogue Partners.
3. The Ministers noted the progress in the implementation of the 2018-2019 ASEAN-U.S. Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement (TIFA) and the Expanded Economic Engagement (E3) Initiatives Work Plan. The Ministers appreciated the support from the new US technical assistance program for ASEAN, namely ASEAN-USAID Inclusive Growth in ASEAN through Innovation, Trade, and E-Commerce (IGNITE) for activities under the TIFA/E3 Work Plan, including the Technical Workshop on Digital Trade which improved mutual understanding of ASEAN and the U.S. on the importance of digital trade and appropriate regulatory environment for new cooperation on electric vehicles and associated infrastructure.
4. The Ministers also welcomed the contribution of ASEAN-USAID IGNITE to bring on board the rest of the ASEAN Member States in the live operation ASEAN Single Window (ASW) by the end of this year. The Ministers expressed further appreciation for the United States’ role in supporting dialogue on opportunities to facilitate trade with the United States through the eventual expansion of the ASW. The Ministers were encouraged by the outcomes of the High-Level Policy Dialogue on Trade, Labor, and Environment, which was conducted on 15-16 August 2019, with the support from IGNITE. The Dialogue not only enhanced awareness and understanding of relevant ASEAN sectoral bodies on these new issues in FTAs but also provided an interactive platform for ASEAN cross-sectoral/pillars dialogue and interaction.
5. The Ministers welcomed the progress in the implementation of the U.S.-ASEAN Connect framework in the four areas of energy, innovation, policy and business. The Ministers commended the continuity of the U.S.-ASEAN Internship Program which is jointly conducted by U.S.-ASEAN Connect and the U.S.-ASEAN Business Council (USABC), offering internship opportunities in U.S. companies operating in seven ASEAN countries. The Ministers also looked forward to the expansion of the internship program to all ASEAN countries and to US companies operating outside the ASEAN region.
6. The Ministers looked forward to the ASEAN Economic Ministers-Telecommunication Ministers Roadshow on Digital Economy which will be held on 18-22 November 2019. The Ministers expressed appreciation to the USABC for its support and encouraged continued private sector feedback in promoting stronger business and trade ties between the U.S. and ASEAN business communities.


USTR to Request First-Ever Environment Consultations Under the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) in Effort to Combat Illegal Fishing
09/19/2019
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) announced today that it intends to seek environment consultations with Korea under the Environment Chapter of the United States – Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS).  Today’s announcement follows the release of the U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) biennial report to Congress identifying nations for illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing, pursuant to the Moratorium Protection Act (MPA).  In its report, NMFS has identified Korea for “failing to apply sufficient sanctions to deter its vessels from engaging in fishing activities that violate conservation and management measures adopted by” the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).  Under the KORUS Environment Chapter, Korea is obligated to “adopt, maintain, and implement” measures to fulfill its obligations under CCAMLR.  The United States is entitled to request consultations under Article 20.9 with respect to “any matter” arising under the Chapter, such as NMFS’ identification of Korea for failing to apply sufficient sanctions to deter Korean vessels.
Background:
Article 20.9.1 of KORUS (Environment Consultations and Panel Procedure) provides that a Party may request consultations with another Party regarding any matter arising under the Environment Chapter (Chapter 20).  Article 20.2 of the KORUS Environment Chapter states “[a] Party shall adopt, maintain, and implement laws, regulations, and all other measures to fulfill its obligations under the multilateral environmental agreements listed in Annex 20-A.” CCAMLR is one of seven multilateral environmental agreements listed in the annex.  NMFS and USTR will continue to work closely together, and with Korea, to ensure changes to strengthen Korea’s domestic law to address its fishing vessels’ illegal fishing activity under CCAMLR.
Click here to read the KORUS Environment Chapter.
Click here to read NMFS Report.


Statement on the United States Deputy-Level Trade Talks with China
09/20/2019
On September 19 and 20, deputy-level negotiators from the United States and China met in Washington, D.C. to continue discussions aimed at improving the trade relationship between the two countries. These discussions were productive, and the United States looks forward to welcoming a delegation from China for principal-level meetings in October.    


U.S. Wins $7.5 Billion Award in Airbus Subsidies Case
10/02/2019
Largest Ever WTO Award Paves the Way for U.S. Countermeasures
Washington, D.C. –  The United States has won the largest arbitration award in World Trade Organization (WTO)  history in its dispute with the European Union over illegal subsidies to Airbus.  This follows four previous panel and appellate reports from 2011-2018 finding that EU subsidies to Airbus break WTO rules. Today’s decision demonstrates that massive EU corporate welfare has cost American aerospace companies hundreds of billions of dollars in lost revenue over the nearly 15 years of litigation.
“For years, Europe has been providing massive subsidies to Airbus that have seriously injured the U.S. aerospace industry and our workers. Finally, after 15 years of litigation, the WTO has confirmed that the United States is entitled to impose countermeasures in response to the EU’s illegal subsidies,” U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said.  “Accordingly, the United States will begin applying WTO-approved tariffs on certain EU goods beginning October 18. We expect to enter into negotiations with the European Union aimed at resolving this issue in a way that will benefit American workers.”  
The award of $7.5 billion annually is by far the largest award in WTO history—nearly twice the largest previous award.  The Arbitrator calculated this amount based on WTO findings that EU launch aid for Airbus is causing significant lost sales of Boeing large civil aircraft, as well as impeding exports of Boeing large aircraft to the EU, Australia, China, Korea, Singapore, and UAE markets.  Under WTO rules, the Arbitrator’s decision is final and not subject to appeal. 
The United States today has requested that the WTO schedule a meeting on October 14 to approve a U.S. request for authorization to take countermeasures against the EU.  Pursuant to WTO rules, the WTO will provide this authorization automatically at that meeting. The EU is not allowed to retaliate against WTO-authorized countermeasures.
The tariffs will be applied to a range of imports from EU Member States, with the bulk of the tariffs being applied to imports from France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom – the four countries responsible for the illegal subsidies.  Although USTR has the authority to apply a 100 percent tariff on affected products, at this time the tariff increases will be limited to 10 percent on large civil aircraft and 25 percent on agricultural and other products.  The U.S. has the authority to increase the tariffs at any time, or change the products affected.
USTR will continually re-evaluate these tariffs based on our discussions with the EU. 
Click here to view the list of products that will be subject to additional duties.
Additional Background Information
In May 2011, the Appellate Body confirmed that the EU and four of its member States (Germany, France, the UK, and Spain) conferred more than $18 billion in subsidized financing to Airbus and had caused Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and significant market share throughout the world.  In fact, in looking at the effect of the EU subsidies, the original WTO panel that first heard the case and the Appellate Body agreed that “[w]ithout the subsidies, Airbus would not have existed … and there would be no Airbus aircraft on the market.  None of the sales that the subsidized Airbus made would have occurred.”  None of these findings were altered in the May 2018 compliance appellate report, which confirmed that the EU provided additional billions of euros in subsidized financing to Airbus.
In contrast, the WTO rejected the EU assertion in the EU’s counter-complaint that U.S. subsidies were responsible for the viability of large civil aircraft production in the United States. The WTO found that only a single Washington State tax measure that provided Boeing with additional pricing flexibility was inconsistent with WTO rules.      


Statement on the Council Meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA)
10/23/2019
Washington, DC
October 23, 2019
Washington, DC – Senior officials of the governments of the United States, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan met on October 21, for the Council Meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA).  Afghanistan and Pakistan attended as observers.

Participants focused on expanding trade and creating a welcoming environment for business in order to facilitate regional private sector activity. Participants also examined trade, transit, and investment issues among Central Asian countries. In addition, they discussed the importance of Central Asian countries meeting the eligibility criteria under the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences, including protecting internationally recognized worker rights and providing adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights.
The participants discussed issues related to digital trade among Central Asian countries and the United States, noting that trade in digitally-enabled services supports broad-based economic growth and innovation across economies. Participants agreed to focus on ensuring the free flow of information across borders with a cohesive legal, regulatory, and policy environment characterized by openness, transparency, competition, and non-discrimination. They discussed the importance of developing policies affecting digital trade based on stakeholder participation, predictability, evidence-based policymaking, and regulatory accountability.
As part of the TIFA engagement, participants met in Working Groups focused on addressing customs, intellectual property, technical barriers to trade, customs, and sanitary and phytosanitary measures. The Council noted that the Working Group on Women’s Economic Empowerment will have its initial meeting in early 2020.
The participants agreed that the meetings of the TIFA Council and Working Groups foster bilateral, regional, and global trade and investment opportunities in Central Asia. In particular the participants recognized the importance of implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement and of international best practices in the development of standards and their use in regulations. 
The United States continued to advocate for Afghanistan’s inclusion as a full TIFA participant, and this issue will remain a focus of the TIFA Council.  
The participants agreed that the next meeting of the U.S. - Central Asia TIFA Council would take place in late 2020 in the Central Asia region.


USTR Announces GSP Enforcement Actions and Successes for Seven Countries
10/25/2019
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the United States Trade Representative announced today that President Donald J. Trump is suspending $1.3 billion in trade preferences for Thailand under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) based on its failure to adequately provide  internationally-recognized worker rights.  In addition, the President is restoring some GSP benefits for Ukraine following its passage of legislation aimed at addressing shortcomings in its intellectual property (IP) regime. 
USTR also announced it is opening new GSP eligibility reviews for two countries:  South Africa, based on IP protection and enforcement concerns, and Azerbaijan, based on worker rights concerns.  USTR also is closing GSP eligibility reviews with no loss of GSP eligibility for three countries:  Bolivia and Iraq, based on improvements in the protection of worker rights in those countries, and Uzbekistan, based on improvements in its protection and enforcement of IP rights. 
USTR also announced the results of the annual GSP product review. Decisions on product petitions can be viewed here.
Background
Today’s announcement represents the culmination of three separate processes under the GSP program: (a) determinations on ongoing GSP eligibility reviews, and (b) regular assessments of beneficiary developing countries, combined with public comment opportunities, to determine whether to launch new GSP eligibility reviews, and (c) the annual GSP product review.
Outcomes of Ongoing Country Eligibility Reviews
Thailand: Despite six years of engagement, Thailand has yet to take steps to provide internationally recognized worker rights in a number of important areas identified in a 2015 petition from the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), such as providing protections for freedom of association and collective bargaining.  GSP eligibility will be revoked effective six months from today for approximately one-third of Thailand’s GSP trade, which totaled $4.4 billion in 2018.  The list of products to be excluded from GSP for Thailand is focused on products for which the United States is a relatively important market for Thailand, but where Thailand accounts for a relatively small share of U.S. imports.  Additionally, due to longstanding worker rights issues in the seafood and shipping industries, GSP eligibility will be revoked for all seafood products from Thailand.  A full list of the products to be excluded from GSP for Thailand is available here. The GSP market access eligibility review of Thailand will remain open.
Ukraine: In 2012, USTR opened a GSP review of Ukraine in response to a petition from the International Intellectual Property Alliance.  In December 2017, the Trump Administration announced the partial suspension of Ukraine’s GSP benefits for failure to provide adequate and effective protection of IP rights.  The announcement specifically referenced the importance of improving Ukraine’s system for collective management organizations (CMOs), which are responsible for collecting and distributing royalties to right holders.  In 2018, Ukraine passed new legislation aimed at improving the governance of CMOs.  Despite shortcomings with this legislation, it provides a framework to address concerns covered by the GSP review.  In recognition of this important step, the United States is restoring approximately one-third ($12 million estimated trade value) of the $36 million (estimated trade value) GSP benefits originally removed for Ukraine, given continued significant concerns with Ukraine’s protection and enforcement of IP rights.  A full list of the products to be restored to GSP eligibility for Ukraine is available here.
Bolivia:  USTR is closing the GSP worker rights eligibility review of Bolivia following Bolivia’s passage of legislation raising the minimum age of work to 14, in line with international standards.  The Trump Administration self-initiated this review in 2017, after passage of an earlier law lowering the national minimum working age below the internationally-recognized standard.
Iraq:  USTR is closing a GSP worker rights eligibility review of Iraq opened in 2012 following Iraq’s passage of legislation that expands collective bargaining rights, further limits child labor, provides improved protections against discrimination and sexual harassment at work, and dramatically expands coverage of labor protections to more workers.
Uzbekistan:  USTR is closing the GSP IP eligibility review of Uzbekistan opened in 1999, following Uzbekistan’s accession to the Geneva Phonograms Convention, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Copyright Treaty, and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.  The GSP worker rights eligibility review of Uzbekistan will remain open.
New GSP Eligibility Reviews
Azerbaijan: In October 2017, USTR announced a new triennial process to assess GSP beneficiary country eligibility compliance with all the GSP eligibility criteria.  This year’s assessment period covered GSP beneficiary countries in the Western Hemisphere and  Europe.  Based on this process, USTR is self-initiating a GSP eligibility review of Azerbaijan based on concerns with its compliance with the GSP worker rights criterion. 
South Africa:  USTR is accepting a petition from the International Intellectual Property Alliance based on concerns with South Africa’s compliance with the GSP IP criterion, in the area of copyright protection and enforcement. 
USTR will announce dates for a public hearing and comment period for the new and existing GSP country eligibility reviews in an upcoming Federal Register notice.
GSP, the largest and oldest U.S. trade preference program, is designed to promote economic development by allowing duty-free entry into the United States for 3,500 products from the 119 designated beneficiary countries and territories.  To remain eligible for these advantages, beneficiary countries must comply with 15 statutory eligibility criteria that are important to U.S. interests, including taking steps to afford internationally recognized labor rights, providing adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, and assuring equitable and reasonable access to its markets. 
For more information on the GSP program, visit the GSP page on the USTR website here.


USTR Statement on Meeting of the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity
10/26/2019
Tokyo, Japan – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released the following statement at the close of the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity ministerial meeting held in Tokyo, Japan today.  Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Dennis Shea led the U.S. delegation at the Forum. 
“The United States thanks Japan for hosting this ministerial and for the energy it has brought to its chairmanship of the Global Forum process this year.  The United States has been an active and committed partner in this process, supporting Japan’s efforts to seek prompt implementation of the Forum’s past policy recommendations, which are aimed at reducing excess capacity as well as restoring balance and market function in the global steel sector.
“The decision by a vast majority of Global Forum members to continue the work of the Forum beyond 2019 is a recognition that severe excess capacity is a continuing crisis.  The Global Forum’s policy prescriptions and information-sharing process will not alone resolve the crisis of excess capacity in the global steel sector.  This will only happen when those that have created the problem take concrete steps toward true market-based reform.  Participation in the Global Forum process is a signal of each member government’s commitment to adhere to principles intended to ensure market-based outcomes. 
“The United States will continue to work with like-minded partners to seek long-term solutions to the crisis of global excess capacity and the market distortions and global imbalances that it causes.  This includes, but is not limited to, exchanging information on the policies and practices of countries at the root cause of the crisis, whose measures generate and sustain steelmaking capacity misaligned with market forces.  At the same time, we will continue to take necessary action to address the harmful impact of this ongoing crisis on U.S. companies and workers as well as our essential security interests.”


USTR to Consider Extending Certain Tariff Exclusions on $34 Billion of Chinese Imports
10/28/2019
Washington, DC – The United States Trade Representative (USTR) will commence on November 1, 2019 a process for considering extending for up to twelve months certain exclusions from additional tariffs on Chinese imports that were granted last December and are set to expire on December 28, 2019. 
In a Federal Register notice to be published this week, USTR will provide details on the process for submitting comments favoring or opposing specified tariff exclusions.  The period for submitting comments will run from November 1, 2019 to November 30, 2019. 
To view the Federal Register notice, click here.
Downloadable forms for filing a comment are available here. 


Joint Statement On The Joint Commercial Commission Between The United States And The Republic Of Moldova
10/29/2019
Chisinau, Moldova - Delegations from the United States and the Republic of Moldova met in Chisinau, Moldova for the fourth meeting of the United-States - Moldova Joint Commercial Commission to strengthen the bilateral trade and investment relationship. The U.S. delegation was led by Mr. L. Daniel Mullaney, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East, and the Moldovan delegation was led by Mr. Vadim Brinzan, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure.  
Minister Brinzan and AUSTR Mullaney agreed that the regularity of these meetings during the last three years demonstrates the strength of the bilateral relationship and underlines the commitment from both sides to increase bilateral trade and improve Moldova's investment climate.  The United States welcomed Moldova's commitment to resume accepting imports of animal origin products based on the U.S. Wholesome Certificate. The Moldovan side expressed its appreciation for the U.S. Government's presentation on opportunities to increase utilization of the Generalized System of Preferences. The government representatives also identified concrete steps forward to increase market access for American products.  
The delegates discussed steps to prevent the introduction of regulatory barriers to trade in industrial and agricultural products, including through international notification of certain regulatory proposals for comment. They also reviewed the benefits derived from strong intellectual property rights protection and enforcement, which are essential elements for stimulating innovation and creativity and encouraging exports. 
Turning to the business environment, the delegates discussed Moldova's priority reforms and plans to create an environment favorable to international investment. Both sides acknowledged the importance of transparency, predictability, and respect for the rule of law.  The government of Moldova confirmed its interest in developing an investment screening mechanism and the importance of strengthening its cyber security posture, and welcomed U.S. assistance in this regard.  As part of that discussion, the delegations highlighted the importance of transparent public procurement processes, both to the government and to bidding private sector stakeholders and exporters.    
The government of Moldova described its plans to improve its economic diplomacy. Noting the existing trade and investments relations between the countries and its desire to grow those relations, the Moldovan side announced its intention to create an economic bureau in the United States.
To strengthen the bilateral partnership, the United States and Moldova will continue to engage in and promote bilateral dialogue to find concrete solutions to impediments to trade and investment as well as for strategies to enhance projects and investment.


United States Wins WTO Challenge to Indian Export Subsidies
10/31/2019
Washington, D.C.—A World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute panel agreed with the United States that India provides prohibited export subsidies to Indian exporters worth over $7 billion annually. According to the panel, India gives prohibited subsidies to producers of steel products, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, information technology products, textiles, and apparel, to the detriment of American workers and manufacturers. 
“This is a resounding victory for the United States,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Under the leadership of President Trump, the United States is using every available tool, including WTO enforcement actions, to ensure American workers are able to compete on a level playing field.”
The Indian programs found in violation of WTO rules are: the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS); Export Oriented Units Scheme and related sector specific schemes (EOU); Special Economic Zones (SEZ); Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme (EPCG); and a duty free imports for exporters program (DFIS).  The panel gave India six months to withdraw these prohibited subsidies.   
According to the Indian Government, thousands of Indian companies are receiving subsidies totaling over $7 billion annually from these programs, and India has increased the size and scope of these programs.  For example, India has rapidly expanded the MEIS to include more than 8,000 eligible products, nearly double the number of products covered since its introduction in 2015. Exports under the SEZ have increased over 6,000 percent from 2000 to 2017 and in 2016 accounted for over $82 billion in exports, or 30 percent of India’s export volume.  Exports from the EOU increased by over 160 percent from 2000 to 2016.       
Background
Export subsidies provide an unfair competitive advantage to recipients, and WTO rules expressly prohibit them.  A limited exception to this rule is for specified developing countries that may continue to provide export subsidies temporarily until they reach a defined economic benchmark.  India was initially within this group, but it surpassed the benchmark in 2015.  India’s exemption has expired, but India has not withdrawn its export subsidies.  
Today’s panel report rejects India’s assertion that it is entitled to additional time to provide export subsidies even after hitting the defined economic benchmark.  The panel report concludes that each program is an export subsidy inconsistent with India’s WTO obligations. 
The withdrawal of these prohibited subsidies will result in American workers and manufacturers competing on a fairer basis with their Indian competitors.


President Trump Terminates Trade Preference Program Eligibility for Cameroon
10/31/2019
Washington, DC – President Donald J. Trump announced today his intent to terminate the eligibility of Cameroon for trade preference benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), as of January 1, 2020, due to persistent gross violations of internationally recognized human rights. The President notified Congress and the Government of Cameroon accordingly.
Based on the results of the required annual AGOA eligibility review, the President determined that Cameroon does engage in gross violations of internationally recognized human rights. Consequently, Cameroon is out of compliance with eligibility requirements of AGOA.  Specifically, Cameroon has failed to address concerns regarding persistent human rights violations being committed by Cameroonian security forces. These violations include extrajudicial killings, arbitrary and unlawful detention, and torture. 
“The U.S. government remains deeply concerned about persistent gross violations of human rights being committed by the Cameroonian government against its own citizens,” said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney. “This action underscores the Administration’s commitment to upholding the human rights criteria as required in the AGOA legislation.  We urge the government of Cameroon to work with the United States and the international community to strengthen protection of human rights under the law and to publicly hold to account those who engage in human rights violations.”
The United States will continue to monitor whether Cameroon continues to engage in gross violations of internationally recognized human rights in accordance with the AGOA eligibility requirements.
Background
In order to qualify for AGOA trade benefits, partner countries must meet certain statutory eligibility requirements, including not engaging in gross violations of internationally recognized human rights. Other criteria include making continual progress toward establishing the rule of law, political pluralism, establishing internationally recognized worker rights, and the elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment.


USTR Welcomes Passage of Amendments to Korea’s Distant Water Fisheries Development Act Following First Ever Environment Consultations under the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement
11/01/2019
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) welcomes passage by Korea’s National Assembly of amendments to Korea’s Distant Water Fisheries Development Act. This action follows the first ever environment consultations under the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) wherein the United States raised concerns regarding Korea’s response to the illegal fishing activities of its vessels. USTR applauds the significant efforts Korea has made to strengthen its regime to deter and penalize illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing.  USTR, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and other relevant U.S. government agencies, will continue to work closely with the government of Korea and will follow developments in the implementation of the recently amended Act, including the issuance of an Enforcement Ordinance and Implementation Rules.
“We commend Korea for acting expeditiously to strengthen its regime to combat illegal fishing, which disadvantages law-abiding fishermen everywhere,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. “This action demonstrates that the Trump Administration’s strong commitment to using tools such as environmental monitoring and enforcement provisions under our trade agreements can produce real results that help protect and conserve our ocean resources.”
The U.S. request for environment consultations under KORUS marks the fourth time in history that the U.S. has invoked the environmental monitoring and enforcement provisions of a trade agreement, and all four instances have occurred during the Trump Administration. 
Background:
The United States requested environment consultations with Korea under the KORUS Environment Chapter on September 19, 2019 to discuss concerns regarding Korea’s ability to apply sufficient sanctions to deter its vessels from engaging in fishing activities that violate conservation and management measures adopted by the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).  On October 17, 2019, the United States and Korea held productive environment consultations in Seoul with representatives from Korea’s Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy, Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Korea Coast Guard. The recently adopted amendments to Korea’s Distant Water Fisheries Development Act now enable the Minister of Oceans and Fisheries to administer administrative sanctions for violations of conservation and management measures of regional fisheries management organizations, including CCAMLR.  USTR and NMFS will continue to work closely with Korea on efforts to combat illegal fishing, including ensuring effective implementation and enforcement of the recent amendments to the Act.
Click here to read the KORUS Environment Chapter.


Joint Statement On The Ninth Meeting Of The United States - Ukraine Trade And Investment Council
11/01/2019
Kyiv, Ukraine – Delegations from the United States and Ukraine met today in Kyiv, Ukraine for the ninth meeting of the United States - Ukraine Trade and Investment Council (Council), aimed at increasing bilateral trade and investment.  Assistant United States Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East, L. Daniel Mullaney, led the U.S. delegation and the Minister of Economic Development, Trade, and Agriculture of Ukraine, Timofey Mylovanov, led the Ukrainian delegation.  
Following the recent elections in Ukraine, the U.S. and Ukrainian governments pledged to work together to help Ukraine take steps toward reforming its economy and strengthening its business and investment environment. The United States remains a committed partner and expressed its continued support for an independent, democratic, and prosperous Ukraine.
Underscoring the important role the business community plays in informing bilateral discussions and helping to ensure the long-term positive relationship between the two countries, the meeting opened with presentations from the business sector.
In the government-to-government portion of the meeting, the delegates first discussed ways to enhance bilateral trade. Ukraine agreed to support legislation to open its market for crop protection products and to level the playing field for international grain traders. Ukraine further confirmed that the upcoming changes to its new rules on animal-origin products would not adversely impact imports from the United States.    
Turning to regulatory issues, the Heads of Delegation noted with appreciation the productive work over the past year of the Council’s Working Group on Sanitary and Phytosanitary issues and the Working Group on Technical Barriers to Trade issues to identify ways to reduce or eliminate regulatory barriers to trade. Highlighting the importance of transparency, the government of Ukraine described its pilot program to create an electronic platform on which it could publicize draft regulatory measures, accept public comments, and provide its responses to those comments. Ukraine committed to maintaining a transparent and predictable regulatory regime and to basing its measures on international standards in order to position Ukraine to trade with a variety of markets. The Heads of Delegation directed their teams to continue their work together on these issues.
The delegations noted the tangible progress on key intellectual property (IP) rights issues, including Ukraine’s implementation of the recently adopted collective management law. The Heads of Delegation encouraged continued engagement between the teams to address remaining concerns with the law and to ensure the development of a transparent, fair, and predictable system for the collective management of copyright royalties. Ukraine committed to develop and implement a program to remove all unlicensed software from government and state-owned enterprise computers by the next meeting of the Trade and Investment Council.  The delegates also discussed recent activities related to the enforcement of IP rights and how to improve those efforts. Experts noted their plans for future engagement on other draft IP rights legislation in Ukraine. Noting the work on IP rights protection and enforcement, Ukraine expressed its appreciation for the partial restoration of its Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) privileges, and resolved to take the steps necessary to come into full compliance with GSP’s eligibility requirements on the protection of IP rights.
The delegates discussed the ongoing work to improve bilateral investment. Both sides recognized the importance of creating a business environment based on predictability, transparency, and the rule of law to attract foreign investment. As evidence of its commitment to reform its business environment, Ukraine described its reform agenda, in particular its efforts to reform Ukrainian Railroads, and its privatization efforts. The government of Ukraine agreed to work with industry representatives to address the delays in value added tax refunds.  
The delegates acknowledged the progress made in these and other areas, and agreed that more work remains.  Members of both delegations remain hopeful about the opportunities and potential of the Ukrainian economy and are committed to working together in support of Ukraine’s continued reform efforts.  They will work to advance a strong and prosperous relationship and look forward to expanding efforts in the next Council meeting in Washington, DC in 2020.
Background
The United States and Ukraine signed the United States-Ukraine Trade and Investment Cooperation Agreement (TICA) in 2008. The TICA established the TIC as the primary intergovernmental mechanism for discussion of trade and investment relations between the two countries.
U.S.-Ukraine bilateral trade in 2018 was approximately $3.8 billion, an increase of over 35 percent from 2017. Goods exports totaled $2.5 billion; goods imports totaled $1.4 billion.  


The United States and Kenya hold Second Meeting of the Trade and Investment Working Group
11/04/2019
The United States and Kenya held the second meeting of the U.S.-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group from October 31 to November 4, 2019 in Nairobi, Kenya.
The Working Group, established by President Donald J. Trump and President Uhuru Kenyatta, is exploring ways to deepen the trade and investment ties between the two countries and lay the groundwork for a stronger future trade relationship.
The Working Group’s discussions covered a range of trade and investment topics, including services, digital trade, intellectual property, agriculture, environment, customs and trade facilitation, technical barriers to trade, labor, and state-owned enterprises.
The United States and Kenya intend to establish a strategic framework to provide technical assistance and trade capacity building in Kenya with the aim of maximizing Kenya’s utilization of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) trade benefits for the remaining years of the preference program, which is scheduled to expire in 2025.
The United States and Kenya reviewed progress on the implementation of the bilateral commercial Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in June 2018. The objective of the MoU is to increase the number of U.S. businesses engaged in priority projects identified by Kenya in its “Big Four” agenda, and to address business climate issues that may impede greater bilateral trade and investment.
The United States agreed to explore opportunities for providing training to relevant Kenyan government ministries, departments, and agencies on best practices that can strengthen the trade policy environment particularly in the Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME) sector.
The United States and Kenya also intend to partner with the American Chamber of Commerce to strengthen commercial cooperation, catalyze business to business linkages, and strengthen the capacity of both U.S. and Kenyan businesses, including SMEs, to participate in available market opportunities.
The delegations were led by Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Africa, Constance Hamilton, and Dr. Chris Kiptoo, Principal Secretary, State Department of Trade, Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Cooperatives, and included representatives from a wide range of U.S. and Kenyan government departments and agencies. Both countries agreed to strive to make additional progress in advance of the next Working Group meeting, to be held in Washington, DC in January 2020.


United States and New Zealand Meet Under Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
11/07/2019
Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, November 6, the United States and New Zealand held productive discussions under the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), noting the strong and growing trade cooperation between the two countries. 
During the meeting, the United States and New Zealand agreed to enhance their trade and investment relationship and to meet again next year.  In addition to discussing enhanced trade ties, the two sides also discussed developments in their respective trade agendas as well as mutual issues of concern related to digital trade.
The meeting was led by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jeffrey Gerrish for the United States and Deputy Secretary Trade and Economic Affairs Vangelis Vitalis for New Zealand. 
Background
Two-way goods trade between the United States and New Zealand totaled $8.2 billion in 2018, with U.S. goods exports to New Zealand totaling $4.1 billion and imports totaling $4.2 billion.  The United States had a $127 million goods trade deficit with New Zealand in 2018.  U.S. services exports to New Zealand totaled $2.9 billion in 2018, while services imports from New Zealand amounted to $2.7 billion.  The United States had a $181 million services trade surplus with New Zealand in 2018.


American Poultry Farmers Regain Access to China
11/14/2019
U.S. poultry exports expected to top $1 billion annually
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue released the following statement on China’s decision to lift its ban on poultry imports from the United States:
“The United States welcomes China’s decision to finally lift its unwarranted ban on U.S. poultry and poultry products.  This is great news for both America’s farmers and China’s consumers,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “China is an important export market for America’s poultry farmers, and we estimate they will now be able to export more than $1 billion worth of poultry and poultry products each year to China.  Reopening China to U.S. poultry will create new export opportunities for our poultry farmers and support thousands of workers employed by the U.S. poultry industry.”
Secretary Perdue said, “After being shut out of the market for years, U.S. poultry producers and exporters welcome the reopening of China’s market to their products.  America’s producers are the most productive in the world and it is critical they be able to sell their bounty to consumers in other parts of the globe. We will continue our work to expand market access in important markets like China as well as other countries, to support our producers and U.S. jobs.”
China has banned all U.S. poultry since January 2015 due to an avian influenza outbreak in December 2014, even though the United States has been free of this disease since August 2017.  The United States exported over $500 million worth of poultry products to China in 2013.
The United States is the world’s second largest poultry exporter, with global exports of poultry meat and products of $4.3 billion last year.   


Brazil’s Implementation of Tariff Rate Quota for Wheat a Win for American Farmers
11/14/2019
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue welcome Brazil’s implementation of an annual duty-free tariff rate quota (TRQ) of 750,000 metric tons (MT) of wheat imports.
For many years, Brazil failed to implement its obligation under the WTO to establish a TRQ for wheat. Brazil’s implementation of this TRQ fulfills a commitment made to President Trump by President Bolsonaro earlier this year and reflects a desire to deepen trade and economic ties between both countries.
“This solution to a long-standing problem is a result of the Administration’s advocacy for American farmers and will allow our wheat exporters to compete on a level playing field,” said Ambassador Lighthizer. “We look forward to increased exports of American wheat to Brazil.”
Secretary Perdue said, “American farmers can compete with anybody when given access to customers. This is why we are working tirelessly to knock down barriers to our exports, like high Brazilian tariffs on our wheat.  We are excited about the additional export opportunity U.S. wheat farmers will have with the opening of this TRQ. Exports are critical to the success of our farmers and the United States looks forward to once again having stable access to this important wheat market.”
Background:
Brazil committed to implementing a 750,000 MT duty-free TRQ for wheat imports when it acceded to the World Trade Organization in 1994.  The United States has long sought for Brazil to fulfill this commitment, culminating in a public announcement when Presidents Trump and Bolsonaro met in Washington in March.  The duty-free TRQ will provide stable and predictable access to a market where U.S. wheat exporters have long had ready Brazilian customers.  Prior to implementation of this TRQ, U.S. wheat typically entered Brazil at an applied 10 percent duty, in comparison to wheat from Brazil’s MERCOSUR customs union trade partners, particularly Argentina, which enters duty-free.


United States and South Korea Reach Agreement on Guaranteed Market Access for American Rice
11/19/2019
Washington, DC –  United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue are pleased to announce that the Trump Administration has reached an agreement with the government of South Korea on market access for U.S. rice.
Under the agreement, Korea will provide access for 132,304 tons of U.S. rice annually, with an annual value of approximately $110 million.  Korea also agreed to important disciplines to ensure transparency and predictability around the tendering and auctioning for U.S. rice.
“Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, this agreement gives our farmers the largest volume of guaranteed market access for rice in Korea that the United States has ever enjoyed,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “It will prove enormously beneficial for American producers and their customers in Korea, who will enjoy access to high quality and cost competitive U.S. rice.”
Secretary Perdue said, “Today’s announcement is another great testament of President Trump’s determination to expand export opportunities for America’s farmers and ranchers. Exports are critical for the economic health of the U.S. rice industry, with half our crop being exported every year. Agreements like this, that expand opportunities for U.S. rice producers in important markets, are critical to introduce foreign customers to the bounty of goods produced by America’s farmers.”
Background:
In 2014, the United States, Australia, China, Thailand, and Vietnam entered into negotiations with Korea when its special treatment for rice market access under the World Trade Organization (WTO) expired.  As a result of these negotiations, Korea agreed to include in its WTO Schedule a 408,700-ton tariff-rate quota for rice imports with a five percent in-quota duty and a 513-percent above-quota duty.  Of that 408,700 tons, Korea will allocate 388,700 tons of rice into country-specific quotas under a Plurilateral Agreement with the United States, Australia, China, Thailand and Vietnam.  The remaining 20,000 tons will be administered on a global basis, which U.S. suppliers can also bid for.
The agreement gives the United States the greatest volume of guaranteed rice market access in Korea ever with an annual value of approximately $110 million.  Additionally, the agreement provides U.S. suppliers with enhanced disciplines related to administration of the U.S. country-specific quota. 
The agreement will enter into force on January 1, 2020.


United States Trade Representative Moves Forward on its Investigation under Section 301 into France’s Digital Services Tax
11/27/2019
Washington, DC –  The United States Trade Representative is in the process of completing its investigation, under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, of France’s Digital Services Tax (DST) and intends to issue its report in that investigation on Monday, December 2, 2019.  At that time, the United States Trade Representative also will announce any proposed action in the investigation.
Background:
On March 6, 2019, the French government released a proposal for a 3 percent tax on revenues generated by some companies from certain digital services.  The two houses of the French parliament passed a final DST bill on July 4 and 16, and President Emmanuel Macron signed the bill into law on July 24.  The DST imposes a 3 percent levy on gross revenues generated from providing two categories of digital services—“digital interface” services and “targeted advertising” services—to, or aimed at, persons in France.  The DST applies only to companies that generate, from providing the taxable services, €750 million globally and €25 million for services provided to, or aimed at, persons in France.  The DST requires that covered companies calculate revenues attributable to France using formulas specified in the law.  The DST applies retroactively, beginning January 1, 2019.
On July 10, 2019, the U.S. Trade Representative initiated an investigation of the French DST pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.  The notice of initiation (84 FR 34042) requested interested persons to provide comments in connection with the investigation by no later than August 26, 2019.  USTR and the interagency Section 301 committee held a public hearing on August 19. 


United States Wins for the Sixth Time in Airbus Subsidies Dispute
12/02/2019
Panel Rejects EU’s Latest Claims that it Removed Illegal Subsidies
Washington, DC –  A World Trade Organization (WTO) compliance panel today rejected the European Union’s (EU) latest claims that it complied with WTO rules by making minor changes to its massive launch aid subsidies to Airbus.  The WTO recently valued the harm caused by these subsidies at $7.5 billion.  Today’s findings reaffirmed that the subsidies continue to cause adverse effects, and found further that European governments even extended the subsidies by renegotiating launch aid with Airbus.  Furthermore, the WTO panel found that this massive EU corporate welfare continues to cost American aerospace companies significant lost revenue.
“Today’s findings confirm that, despite losing in five previous WTO reports, Europe remains more focused on generating meritless litigation than it is in addressing the massive subsidies to Airbus that continue to harm the U.S. aerospace industry and its workers,” U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said.  “The EU’s frivolous case proves that strong action is needed to convince the EU that its interests lie in eliminating these market-distorting subsidies now and in the future, so that our industries can compete on a level playing field.”  
Today’s report marks the sixth time that the WTO has found that EU subsidies to Airbus break WTO rules.  In this latest iteration, the EU tried yet again to show that minor changes to its Airbus subsidization package were enough to eliminate the WTO inconsistencies identified in the past.  The WTO panel again rejected all of these claims and instead found that European governments had extended the subsidies by renegotiating the launch aid in a way even more favorable to Airbus.  As a result, the panel found that the subsidies caused the Boeing 777, 787, and 747 aircraft to lose sales and market share to Airbus – sales that would have meant more revenue for U.S. producers and jobs for U.S. workers.
As a result of the EU’s failure to address these subsidies, on October 18, the United States imposed tariffs of 10 percent on large civil aircraft and 25 percent on agricultural and other products, with the bulk of these tariffs being applied to imports from France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom – the four countries responsible for the illegal subsidies.  In light of today’s report and the lack of progress in efforts to resolve this dispute, the United States is initiating a process to assess increasing the tariff rates and subjecting additional EU products to the tariffs.  USTR will publish a Federal Register Notice regarding that process later this week.
Additional Background Information
In May 2011, the WTO Appellate Body confirmed that the EU and four of its member States (Germany, France, the UK, and Spain) conferred more than $18 billion in subsidized financing to Airbus, and that this caused Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and significant market share throughout the world. On October 14, the WTO authorized the United States to apply $7.5 billion per year in countermeasures – nearly twice the largest previous award in WTO history.  Accordingly, the United States recently began applying tariffs on EU goods.  Click here to view the list of products that are subject to additional duties.
In contrast, the WTO rejected the EU assertion in the EU’s counter-complaint that U.S. subsidies were responsible for the viability of large civil aircraft production in the United States. The WTO found that only a 0.19 percent reduction in a Washington State tax was inconsistent with WTO rules.  


Conclusion of USTR’s Investigation Under Section 301 into France’s Digital Services Tax
12/02/2019
Washington, DC – The U.S. Trade Representative has completed the first segment of its investigation under section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and concluded that France’s Digital Services Tax (DST) discriminates against U.S. companies, is inconsistent with prevailing principles of international tax policy, and is unusually burdensome for affected U.S. companies. Specifically, USTR’s investigation found that the French DST discriminates against U.S. digital companies, such as Google, Apple, Facebook, and Amazon. In addition, the French DST is inconsistent with prevailing tax principles on account of its retroactivity, its application to revenue rather than income, its extraterritorial application, and its purpose of penalizing particular U.S. technology companies.  A report available on USTR’s website sets out the findings of the investigation.
“USTR’s decision today sends a clear signal that the United States will take action against digital tax regimes that discriminate or otherwise impose undue burdens on U.S. companies,” Ambassador Robert Lighthizer said. “Indeed, USTR is exploring whether to open Section 301 investigations into the digital services taxes of Austria, Italy, and Turkey. The USTR is focused on countering the growing protectionism of EU member states, which unfairly targets U.S. companies, whether through digital services taxes or other efforts that target leading U.S. digital services companies.”     
USTR is issuing a Federal Register notice explaining that, for the reasons set forth in the report, the French DST is unreasonable, discriminatory, and burdens U.S. commerce. The notice solicits comments from the public on USTR’s proposed action, which includes additional duties of up to 100 percent on certain French products.  The notice also seeks comment on the option of imposing fees or restrictions on French services. The list of French products subject to potential duties includes 63 tariff subheadings with an approximate trade value of $2.4 billion.  The value of any U.S. action through either duties or fees may take into account the level of harm to the U.S. economy resulting from the DST.
USTR invites public comment on these issues.  To be assured of consideration, comments on the proposed action must be submitted by January 6, 2020 and post-hearing rebuttal comments by January 14, 2020.  Additionally, the Section 301 committee will hold a public hearing beginning at 9:30 AM on January 7, 2020 regarding proposed action to be taken in this investigation.  The hearing will take place in the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20436. USTR expects to proceed expeditiously thereafter.


Ambassador Lighthizer Lauds Japan’s Approval of the U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement and the U.S.-Japan Digital Trade Agreement
12/04/2019
Washington, DC –  United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement today after Japan’s Diet approved the recently-signed U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement and the U.S.-Japan Digital Trade Agreement:
“I commend Japan’s quick action to approve these important trade agreements between our two nations, which are the world’s first and third largest economies.  We expect the President to sign the implementing proclamation for the United States next week.  The positive results the United States and Japan will gain from these agreements would not be possible without the strong leadership of President Trump and Prime Minister Abe.  Now, U.S. farmers and ranchers will have significantly improved access to Japan’s market, and America’s leadership in the growing digital economy will continue to flourish to the benefit of all our workers."
The United States is preparing for the U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement and the U.S.-Japan Digital Trade Agreement to go into effect on January 1, 2020.  As agreed by President Trump and Prime Minister Abe, both Governments will begin consultations early next year in order to enter into further negotiations on a broader trade agreement.


Statement from United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer
12/10/2019
Washington, DC –  United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement today on the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement:
“Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, we have reached an historic agreement on the USMCA.  After working with Republicans, Democrats, and many other stakeholders for the past two years we have created a deal that will benefit American workers, farmers, and ranchers for years to come.  This will be the model for American trade deals going forward.”  


United States and China Reach Phase One Trade Agreement
12/13/2019
Washington, DC –  The United States and China have reached an historic and enforceable agreement on a Phase One trade deal that requires structural reforms and other changes to China’s economic and trade regime in the areas of intellectual property, technology transfer, agriculture, financial services, and currency and foreign exchange.  The Phase One agreement also includes a commitment by China that it will make substantial additional purchases of U.S. goods and services in the coming years.  Importantly, the agreement establishes a strong dispute resolution system that ensures prompt and effective implementation and enforcement.  The United States has agreed to modify its Section 301 tariff actions in a significant way.
“President Trump has focused on concluding a Phase One agreement that achieves meaningful, fully-enforceable structural changes and begins rebalancing the U.S.-China trade relationship.  This unprecedented agreement accomplishes those very significant goals and would not have been possible without the President’s strong leadership,” said United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.
“Today’s announcement of a Phase One agreement with China is another significant step forward in advancing President Trump’s economic agenda.  Thanks to the President’s leadership, this landmark agreement marks critical progress toward a more balanced trade relationship and a more level playing field for American workers and companies,” said Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin.
The United States first imposed tariffs on imports from China based on the findings of the Section 301 investigation on China’s acts, policies, and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation.  The United States will be maintaining 25 percent tariffs on approximately $250 billion of Chinese imports, along with 7.5 percent tariffs on approximately $120 billion of Chinese imports.
###
Click here to view fact sheet.


Statement From USTR and UST Spokesperson on behalf of Ambassador Lighthizer and Secretary Mnuchin
12/15/2019
Washington, DC –  Bob Davis and Lingling Wei at the Wall Street Journal, based on anonymous sources, have reported at least three times this week that the United States negotiators offered to cut by as much as one half the tariff rates on approximately $360 billion of Chinese imports in exchange for certain purchases. 
While we do not comment on the content of negotiations, we have said publicly and on the record that this is totally false, untrue and baseless.  It did not happen. 
In addition and to be completely clear, we have personally, and on the record, told Mr. Davis and another Wall Street Journal reporter repeatedly that this is utterly false.  No such offer was ever made to China by the United States.  There is not a single knowledgeable American negotiator who would support this falsehood.  Further, there is no Chinese negotiator who could honestly be this source.
We will not speculate on why the Chinese or an American uninvolved with these negotiations would manipulate the story.  This is another example of reporting on an  important alleged event based on secret sources, some of which may have obvious bias. The Wall Street Journal should make very clear that those actually involved for the United States have so clearly indicated that they are untrue, fabricated falsehoods.  It should also expose possible biases of the anonymous source.


USTR Responds to Mexico on USMCA Implementation
12/17/2019
Washington, DC –  United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer sent the following letter today regarding the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) to Jesús Seade, Mexico’s Under Secretary for North America and Chief Trade Negotiator for North America:
December 16, 2019
The Honorable Jesús Seade Kuri
Under Secretary for North America and
   Chief Trade Negotiator for North America
Mexico City, Mexico
Dear Under Secretary Seade:
I write in response to your letter of December 14, 2019 regarding implementing legislation the Trump Administration submitted to Congress last week in connection with the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
As is typical for U.S. embassies in major foreign capitals, the United States Embassy in Mexico presently houses attachés from over a dozen federal agencies, including personnel from the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Treasury, and Justice.  These individuals provide technical expertise to support the diplomatic mission of the United States in Mexico.  The U.S. Government has stationed personnel in various embassies around the world, including in Mexico, to assist foreign governments in improving work conditions.  Mexico, in turn, has many attachés stationed in the United States from the Mexican Interior Secretariat, the National Defense Secretariat, the Security and Civilian Protection Secretariat, the Attorney General’s Office, the National Intelligence Center, the Economy Secretariat, the Secretariat of Agricultural and Rural Development, the Tax Administration Service, and the Finance Intelligence Unit.  The Administration included language in the USMCA implementing legislation authorizing up to five attachés from the Department of Labor to work with their Mexican counterparts, workers, and civil society groups on implementation of the Mexican labor reform, including by providing technical assistance and disbursing capacity building funds, and provide assistance to the new U.S. government interagency labor committee.  These personnel will not be “labor inspectors” and will abide by all relevant Mexican laws.
As you know, the USMCA’s first-of-its-kind, facility-specific, rapid-response mechanism allows an independent, three-person panel chosen by both Parties to request on-site verifications in any of our three countries when there are good faith questions about whether workers at a particular facility are being denied key labor rights.  But those verifications will be conducted by the independent panelists not by the labor attachés.
USMCA is a great agreement for the United States and Mexico.  I look forward to working with you and your colleagues to ensure that the agreement enters into force as quickly as possible.
Sincerely yours,
Robert E. Lighthizer


USDA, USTR Seek Experts for Agricultural Trade Advisory Committees
12/18/2019
Washington, DC –  The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) are accepting applications for new members to serve on seven agricultural trade advisory committees.
Members of the Agricultural Policy Advisory Committee (APAC) advise USDA and USTR on operating existing U.S. trade agreements, on negotiating new agreements, and on other trade policy matters. Members of six Agricultural Technical Advisory Committees (ATACs) provide technical advice and guidance on international trade issues that affect both domestic and foreign production in specific commodity sectors. The ATACs focus on trade in:
•    Animals and animal products;
•    Fruits and vegetables;
•    Grains, feed, oilseeds and planting seeds;
•    Processed foods;
•    Sweeteners and sweetener products; and
•    Tobacco, cotton and peanuts.
To be considered for candidacy, applicants must have significant expertise in both agriculture and international trade matters. Committee members, who serve four-year terms, represent a cross-section of U.S. food and agricultural stakeholders. They must be U.S. citizens, qualify for a security clearance, and be willing to serve without compensation for time, travel or expenses. The committees hold frequent conference calls and generally meet in Washington, D.C., twice a year.
Application instructions are available at https://www.fas.usda.gov/trade-advisory-committees-applying-membership. Applications must be received by 5 p.m. ET on January 31, 2020. Any applications received after the deadline will be considered for future appointments as appropriate. 
For more information, visit www.fas.usda.gov/ATACs or e-mail ATACs@fas.usda.gov. 


Ambassador Lighthizer Issues Statement on House Passage of the USMCA
12/19/2019
Washington, DC –  United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement after the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) by a vote of 385-41:
“House passage of the USMCA with such huge bipartisan support is a major milestone and shows just how much President Trump is successfully changing U.S. trade policy so it works for the benefit of American workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.  The USMCA is expected to create between 176,000 and 589,000 new American jobs and substantially increase economic growth.  The International Trade Commission’s analysis shows that USMCA will have a more positive impact on our economy, jobs and wages than any other U.S. trade agreement ever negotiated.  
“It will create tens of thousands of new jobs—many importantly in manufacturing—and increase export opportunities for our farmers, ranchers and businesses.  President Trump is keeping his promise to replace the failed NAFTA with a far better trade agreement.  Thanks to his leadership and the work of Republicans and Democrats in Congress, the USMCA represents the gold standard in U.S. trade policy and will be the template for U.S. trade agreements going forward.
“This is the first-ever trade coalition of workers, farmers, Republicans, Democrats, business and agriculture groups, organized labor and much more.  I would like to thank the many members of the House and Senate for getting us to this point.  I would also like to acknowledge the leadership of the business community, agriculture groups, and organized labor who have supported the agreement.”


Additional Action Taken to Provide Relief to U.S. Washing Machine Manufacturers
12/20/2019
Washington, DC –  U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced today that President Trump has approved recommendations by the USTR, in consultation with the interagency Trade Policy Staff Committee, to modify the safeguard measure on imported large residential washing machines that took effect on February 7, 2018.
The President’s action will shore up the effectiveness of the relief provided in 2018 to U.S. manufacturers injured by surging imports of large residential washers by allocating the annual tariff-rate quota of 1.2 million units by quarter beginning in February 2020.
President Donald Trump is continuing to fulfill a promise he made in June 2016 to take all necessary action under our trade laws to stand up for America’s workers and manufacturers. The President’s decision was based on developments in the U.S. washers industry since the tariff-rate quota went into effect, as recently noted by the independent, bipartisan U.S. International Trade Commission.  The President’s decision will make the safeguard more effective and will continue to create jobs and spur growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector.  


2020年
Public Hearing on Proposed Action to France’s Digital Services Tax
01/06/2020
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) will hold an off-camera public hearing from 9:30 AM – 5:00 PM EST on January 7, 2020 regarding the proposed action to be taken under Section 301 in response to France’s Digital Services Tax (DST).
The hearing will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E. Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
The French DST law imposes a 3% tax on annual revenues generated by some companies that provide certain digital services to, or aimed at, French users.  The tax applies only to companies with annual revenues from the covered services of at least €750 million globally and €25 million in France.  The services covered are ones where U.S. firms are global leaders. 
USTR initiated the investigation of France’s Digital Services Tax on July 10, 2019, under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. The Federal Register notice regarding the investigation, comment process, and public hearing can be viewed here.
On December 2, 2019, USTR determined that France’s Digital Services Tax is unreasonable or discriminatory and burdens or restricts U.S. commerce. USTR proposed action in the form of additional duties of up to 100 percent on certain products of France. The Federal Register notice regarding the determination and proposed action to France’s Digital Services Tax can be viewed here.
Click here to view the witness list.
NOTE: Media and attendees should note that the hearing is on the record but off-camera; no cameras or video recording will be allowed in the hearing room. A full transcript of the hearing will be posted on USTR.gov and the public docket. Please contact media@ustr.eop.gov with questions or for more information on media arrangements.


Public Hearing on Proposed Action to France’s Digital Services Tax
01/07/2020
The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) hearing that began on January 7 regarding the proposed action to be taken under Section 301 in response to France’s Digital Services Tax (DST) will reconvene at 10 AM on January 8 to hear the remainder of the witnesses scheduled to testify.
The hearing will take place at the U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E. Street SW, Washington, DC 20436.
NOTE: Media and attendees should note that the hearing is on the record but off-camera; no cameras or video recording will be allowed in the hearing room. A full transcript of the hearing will be posted on USTR.gov and the public docket. Please contact media@ustr.eop.gov with questions or for more information on media arrangements.


Joint Statement of the Trilateral Meeting of the Trade Ministers of Japan, the United States and the European Union
01/14/2020
Mr. KAJIYAMA Hiroshi, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative, and Mr. Phil Hogan, European Commissioner for Trade, met in Washington, D.C. on 14 January 2020.
On industrial subsidies, the Ministers discussed ways to strengthen existing WTO rules on industrial subsidies and agreed upon the following:
1. The current list of prohibited subsidies provided for in Article 3.1 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (ASCM) is insufficient to tackle market and trade distorting subsidization existing in certain jurisdictions. Therefore, new types of unconditionally prohibited subsidies need to be added to the ASCM. These are:
a.unlimited guarantees;
b.subsidies to an insolvent or ailing enterprise in the absence of a credible restructuring plan;
c.subsidies to enterprises unable to obtain long-term financing or investment from independent commercial sources operating in sectors or industries in overcapacity;
d.certain direct forgiveness of debt.
Ministers agreed to continue working on identifying the scope of prohibitions and additional categories of unconditionally prohibited subsidies.
2. Certain other types of subsidies have such a harmful effect so as to justify a reversal of the burden of proof so that the subsidizing Member must demonstrate that there are no serious negative trade or capacity effects and that there is effective transparency about the subsidy in question. Subsidies having been discussed in this category include, but are not limited to: excessively large subsidies; subsidies that prop up uncompetitive firms and prevent their exit from the market; subsidies creating massive manufacturing capacity, without private commercial participation; and, subsidies that lower input prices domestically in comparison to prices of the same goods when destined for export. If such subsidy is found to exist and the absence of serious negative effect cannot be demonstrated, the subsidizing Member must withdraw the subsidy in question immediately.
Ministers agreed to continue working on the scope of such provisions, and to identify additional instances of harmful subsidization and their scope.
3. The current rules of the ASCM identify in Article 6.3 instances of serious prejudice to the interests of another Member. However, these instances do not refer to situations where the subsidy in question distorts capacity. An additional type of serious prejudice linked to capacity should be therefore added to Article 6.3 ASCM. Further, work will continue on a provision defining the threat of serious prejudice.
4. The current rules of the ASCM do not provide for any incentive for WTO Members to properly notify their subsidies. Therefore, the state-of-play of subsidies notifications is dismal. Hence, a new strong incentive to notify subsidies properly should be added to Article 25 ASCM, rendering prohibited any non-notified subsidies that were counter-notified by another Member, unless the subsidizing Member provides the required information in writing within set timeframes.
5. The current rules of the ASCM are insufficiently prescriptive when it comes to the determination of the proper benchmark for subsidies consisting of the provision of goods or services or purchase of goods by a government in situations where the domestic market of the subsidizing Member is distorted. Therefore, the ASCM should be amended to describe the circumstances in which domestic prices can be rejected and how a proper benchmark can be established, including the use prices outside of the market of the subsidizing Member.
6. The Ministers observed that many subsidies are granted through State Enterprises and discussed the importance of ensuring that these subsidizing entities are captured by the term “public body”. The Ministers agreed that the interpretation of “public body” by the WTO Appellate Body in several reports undermines the effectiveness of WTO subsidy rules.  To determine that an entity is a public body, it is not necessary to find that the entity “possesses, exercises or is vested with governmental authority.”  The Ministers agreed to continue working on a definition of "public body" on this basis.
On forced technology transfers, the Ministers reaffirmed that technology transfer between firms in different countries is an important part of global trade and investment. Technology transfer that is fair, voluntary and based on market principles can be mutually beneficial for growth and development. They also reaffirmed that when one country engages in forced technology transfer, it deprives other countries of the opportunity to benefit from the fair, voluntary and market-based flow of technology and innovation.  These unfair practices are inconsistent with an international trading system based on market principles and undermines growth and development.
The Ministers discussed possible elements of core disciplines that aim to prevent forced technology transfer practices of third countries, the need to reach out to and build consensus with other WTO Members on the need to address forced technology transfer issues and their commitment to effective means to stop harmful forced technology transfer policies and practices, including through export controls, investment review for national security purposes, their respective enforcement tools, and the development of new rules.
The Ministers also took stock of the progress on the discussion and the joint actions on the following items and agreed to continue cooperating on them:
the importance of market oriented conditions for a free, fair, and mutually advantageous trading system;
reform of the WTO, to include increasing WTO Member compliance with existing WTO notification obligations and pressing advanced WTO Members claiming developing country status to undertake full commitments in ongoing and future WTO negotiations;
international rule-making on trade-related aspects of electronic commerce at the WTO; and
international forums such as the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity and the Governments/Authorities’ Meeting on Semiconductors.
Economic and Trade Agreement Between the Government of the United States and the Government of the People’s Republic of China
01/15/2020
Washington, DC – To view the text of the agreement and fact sheets about the agreement, click on the following links:
Economic and Trade Agreement
Fact Sheets


Ambassador Lighthizer Comments on Senate Passage of USMCA
01/16/2020
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly approved the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) by a vote of 89-10:
“Now that USMCA has passed the Congress of the United States with overwhelming, bipartisan majorities in both chambers, a new chapter in U.S. trade policy has begun. 
“The USMCA is the first trade agreement that will result in more manufacturing jobs, not fewer.  It is the first agreement that contains strong, enforceable labor and environmental standards that will help to level the playing field for American workers.  It is the first trade agreement that embraces the promise of the digital economy and enhances America’s competitive advantage in technology and innovation.  It is the first agreement with strong, enforceable disciplines against unfair, market distorting subsidies and currency manipulation.  And it is the first trade agreement that contains a ‘sunset’ provision that will give future administrations leverage to ensure that, unlike the disaster that was NAFTA, USMCA will never become outdated and out of balance.  USMCA is now the new gold standard against which all future trade agreements will be judged.
“I thank Senator Grassley and Senator Wyden for their leadership and counsel throughout this entire effort. 
“Mostly I would like to thank President Trump.  Were it not for his grit and determination to correct the failed policies of the past, none of this would have been possible.  America’s farmers, ranchers, businesses, and workers will benefit from his historic achievement for years to come.”


Deputy U.S. Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney and Bolivian Foreign Minister Karen Longaric Exchange Letters on Unique Distilled Spirits
01/24/2020
Washington, DC -- Deputy United States Trade Representative C.J. Mahoney and Bolivian Foreign Minister Karen Longaric today exchanged letters to launch a process by Bolivia to designate Bourbon Whiskey and Tennessee Whiskey as distinctive products of the United States, and by the United States to designate Singani as a distinctive product of Bolivia. Singani, Bourbon and Tennessee Whiskey are among Bolivia’s and the United States’ most unique and well-recognized products. This exchange of letters represents a positive development for both countries’ industries and reflects a shared interest in renewed bilateral trade ties.
Background
Singani is a distilled spirit made from white Muscat grapes and has been called the “national drink” of Bolivia. It is produced in the Bolivian Andes at elevations between 5,250 feet and 9,200 feet. Bolivia has asked the United States to recognize Singani as a distinctive product of Bolivia, and USTR has asked Bolivia to recognize Bourbon Whiskey and Tennessee Whiskey as distinctive products of the United States. Similar product status was granted for U.S. Bourbon and Whiskey in U.S. free trade agreements with Mexico, Canada, Peru and Chile, and by a letter exchange with Brazil. Under the agreement reached today, the Treasury Department’s Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) will publish a notice of proposed rulemaking that will solicit comments from the public. If TTB promulgates a final regulation designating Singani as a distinctive product of Bolivia, Bolivia will recognize Bourbon Whiskey and Tennessee Whiskey as distinctive products of the United States. This would be a favorable outcome for both U.S. and Bolivian industries and will create increased opportunities for exports of these spirits as previous designations have prompted.
In 2018, U.S. total (two-way) goods trade with Bolivia reached $1.0 billion. The U.S. goods trade surplus with Bolivia was $76 million.


Ambassador Lighthizer Delivers Remarks at USMCA Signing
01/29/2020
 Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer delivered the following remarks today at a White House event where President Donald J. Trump signed the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) into law:
“The President was elected in large part on his promise to change the direction of U.S. trade policy—a policy that for too long had led to exploding trade deficits, the outsourcing of U.S. jobs, and the brazen theft of American intellectual property. 
“For many, NAFTA came to symbolize everything that was wrong with that policy.  The agreement was highly controversial from the start and passed with a narrow majority in the House of Representatives.  Many of those who cast votes in favor came to regret their decision.  They did so because many of the promises that were made in order to procure their votes came to nothing.  NAFTA’s weak, unenforceable labor side agreement did not raise wages in Mexico.  The outsourcing fears of prominent anti-NAFTA voices came true and the situation got worse later in the decade when China joined the WTO.
“This experience colored every subsequent debate over trade policy.  And nearly every trade agreement after NAFTA passed with an increasingly narrow majority and often along party lines.
“President Trump set out to chart a new course.  The Trump trade policy is designed to create more manufacturing jobs, protect America’s competitive advantage in technology and innovation, secure greater market access for American businesses, farmers, ranchers, and, critically, to change the stale politics of trade by creating bipartisan consensus around a new model that works better for all Americans.  The USMCA achieves each of these goals.
“This great, historic agreement is truly the result of extraordinary effort by many, many people.  It is multinational, whole of administration and bipartisan.  It affects every sector, thousands of businesses and millions of workers in our economy.  Of course, the President was our leader and inspiration.  And the Vice President was intimately involved in this process in every single step and devoted an enormous amount of his first term to making sure that we succeeded. For that, I am very grateful.
“The complexity of this effort is perhaps best shown by the fact that in the early rounds as many as a 1,000 negotiators from the three countries would be involved.  We needed experts on agriculture, manufacturing, automobiles, banking, telecommunications, labor, environment, and I could go on and on.
“I would like to thank my negotiating partners from Mexico—Secretary Ildefonso Guajardo, Ambassador Jesús Seade, as well as the absolutely essential Luis Videgaray, Secretary Marcelo Ebrard, as well as Secretary Graciela Marquez, and past and present Ambassadors Gutiérrez and Bárcena from Mexico.
“On the Canadian side, I would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister and good friend Chrystia Freeland, Gerry Butts, Katie Telford and Steve Verheul.  And again, the ambassadors there, past and present, McNaughton and Hillman. All were critical.   
“Mexico and Canada are fortunate to have such impressive public servants.   
“I would also personally like to thank the members of Congress, Republicans and Democrats, who worked so hard on this agreement not just last year but during the course of the negotiations.  They also were involved every step of the way. They made this a bipartisan success.  I have been in town long enough to know that listing members at a time like this makes more enemies than friends so I’ll only mention that I am grateful to the leadership of the House, the chairman and ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee and the Finance Committee, and of course, Leader McConnell. Many others also made immense contributions.  Thank you also to Congressional staff.  You were magnificent for two years.
“Finally, and I apologize for the length of my remarks, I want to show my appreciation to the inspiring men and women of USTR, as well as the Departments of Commerce, Agriculture, Treasury, Labor, Transportation, EPA and other agencies that worked so hard.  These people worked tens of thousands of hours for two plus years—many going home at 2 and 3 o’clock in the morning or not at all. 
“Chief among the leaders of this effort is my deputy, Ambassador C.J. Mahoney.  Since his confirmation two years ago, he has worked continuously on this effort, day and night, and seven days a week.  Thank you also Ambassador Gregg Doud, our Agricultural Negotiator, and the long-suffering Jamieson Greer, who has the unenviable task of being my Chief of Staff.  As I said 16 months ago, thank you also Jared Kushner, my friend and partner, for all your work and guidance and support. I said before from the heart and I mean it again now, thank you to the Cabinet members who devoted a substantial part of their terms to this effort,  particularly the Secretaries of Treasury, Commerce, Agriculture, and Labor.  And thank you, of course, Larry Kudlow and Peter Navarro.
“The Chief Negotiator of the USMCA was assistant USTR John Melle.  He was, throughout, the one who is responsible for the 350 or so people on our team.  John is the best example of a career public servant.  He retires this week and he will be missed. 
“In closing, let me just say that I mostly want to thank the President of the United States for allowing me to lead this special team, for his constant, steady leadership, and for always being supportive during very difficult times and to congratulate him on his magnificent achievement.  To do this and to do it under these circumstances is a monumental part of your legacy, and I’m happy to be part of it.
“I’ll end where I began.  The President ran and was elected on replacing NAFTA with an agreement that puts American workers first, American farmers, ranchers and businesses first, that will bring manufacturing back, help service industry workers and raise wages.  All I can say, if you’ll pardon the appropriation: Promise made—and 3 years later—promise kept.”


Public Hearing on GSP Country Practice Reviews
01/29/2020
The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) will hold an off-camera public hearing from 10:00 AM – 5:00 PM on Thursday, January 30, 2020 and Friday, January 31, 2020 regarding the GSP country practice reviews of Azerbaijan, Ecuador, Georgia, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Thailand, South Africa, and Uzbekistan, and the country designation review of Laos.
The hearing will take place at the Office of the United States Trade Representative, Rooms 1 and 2, 1724 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20508.
The Federal Register notice regarding the comment process and hearing can be viewed here.
Click here to view the witness list.


Ambassador Lighthizer Issues Statement Concerning President Trump’s Executive Order on Counterfeit Goods
01/31/2020
Washington, DC –United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s Executive Order on protecting consumers, intellectual property rights holders, businesses, and workers from counterfeit goods:
“The trafficking of counterfeit and pirated goods is a scourge that causes significant harm to our workers, consumers, intellectual property owners, and economy.  Under President Trump’s leadership, the federal government and industry partners are working together to combat illicit trade.  In addition, President Trump has ensured that intellectual property protection and enforcement against pirated and counterfeit goods are a priority in America’s trade relationships.  For example, the USMCA sets the highest standards of any U.S. trade agreement for strong, effective protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.  Similarly, the U.S.-China Phase One agreement includes strong intellectual property protections and effective action against pirated and counterfeit goods. 
“The Trump Administration is continuing to show strong leadership in stopping those who steal American intellectual property and seek to profit off of counterfeit products.  I commend Acting Secretary Wolf and his staff at the Department of Homeland Security for their important report that highlights the extent of this problem and sets forth an action plan to address it.”


Ambassador Lighthizer Comments on President Trump’s State of the Union Address
02/04/2020
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative released the following statement tonight about President Trump’s State of the Union address:
“Thanks to President Trump’s strong leadership, America is thriving under his economic and trade policies.  President Trump is negotiating better trade deals for the American people, and our country has secured tremendous victories in historic agreements like the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the China Phase One Agreement, the U.S.-Japan Trade and Digital Trade Agreements, and the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement.  Each of these agreements brings new opportunities for American workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses to sell their goods and services to more customers around the world while creating new jobs and a stronger economy for our country.  President Trump has kept his promise to chart a new and better course for U.S. trade policy through fairer and more balanced agreements.  This enormous success is only the beginning of what we will accomplish under his leadership.”


USTR Announces Reallocation of Unused Fiscal Year 2020 WTO Tariff-Rate Quota Volume for Raw Cane Sugar
02/06/2020
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced the reallocation of the unused country-specific quota allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported raw cane sugar for Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 (October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020).
TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On June 27, 2019, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity for raw cane sugar for FY 2020.  The in-quota quantity for the TRQ on raw cane sugar FY 2020 is 1,117,195 metric tons raw value (MTRV), which is the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO Agreement).  On July 15, 2019, USTR provided notice of country-by-country allocations of the FY 2020 in-quota quantity of the WTO TRQ for imported raw cane sugar.  Based on consultation with quota holders, USTR has determined to reallocate 78,071 MTRV of the original TRQ quantity from those countries that have stated they do not plan to fill their FY 2020 allocated raw cane sugar quantities.  USTR is allocating the 78,071 MTRV to the following countries in the amounts specified below:
 
Country	FY 2020 Raw Sugar Unused Reallocation (MTRV)
Argentina	4,006
Australia	7,733
Barbados	652
Belize	1,025
Bolivia	745
Brazil	13,509
Colombia	2,236
Costa Rica	1,397
Dominican Republic	16,397
Ecuador	1,025
El Salvador	2,422
Eswatini (Swaziland)	1,490
Fiji	838
Guatemala	4,472
Guyana	1,118
Honduras	932
India	745
Jamaica	1,025
Malawi	932
Mauritius	1,118
Mozambique	1,211
Nicaragua	1,956
Panama	2,702
Peru	3,820
South Africa	2,143
Thailand	1,304
Zimbabwe	1,118
 
These allocations are based on the countries’ historical shipments to the United States. The allocations of the raw cane sugar WTO TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country for which an allocation has been provided.
Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


President Trump Announces Intent to Negotiate Trade Agreement with Kenya
02/06/2020
Washington, DC—President Donald J. Trump today announced the United States intends to initiate trade agreement negotiations with the Republic of Kenya following a meeting at the White House with Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta. 
“Kenya is a recognized leader across the continent, an important strategic partner of the United States, and there is enormous potential for us to deepen our economic and commercial ties,” said United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Under President Trump’s leadership, we look forward to negotiating and concluding a comprehensive, high-standard agreement with Kenya that can serve as a model for additional agreements across Africa. 
“We believe this agreement with Kenya will complement Africa’s regional integration efforts, including in the East African Community and the landmark African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), and the United States pledges its continued support to help the AfCFTA achieve its fullest potential.  We believe a trade agreement between the United States and Kenya will receive broad bipartisan support in Congress.”
At the direction of President Trump, Ambassador Lighthizer will officially notify Congress of the Trump Administration’s intention to start negotiations following the consultations with Congress that are required by the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015—often referred to as Trade Promotion Authority (TPA).  USTR will also publish notices in the Federal Register requesting public input on the direction, focus, and content of the trade negotiations.  In accordance with TPA, USTR will publish objectives for the negotiations at least 30 days before trade negotiations begin.
The announcement came while the U.S.-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group held its third meeting in Washington this week.  The Working Group, established by President Trump and President Kenyatta in August 2018, is laying the groundwork for a stronger bilateral trade relationship.
Other outcomes of the third meeting of the Trade and Investment Working Group include the following:
Adoption of a phytosanitary protocol by Kenya that allows American wheat growers in Washington State, Oregon, and Idaho access to Kenya’s $470 million dollar wheat market for the first time in over a decade.
Development of a plan to provide technical assistance and trade capacity building with the aim of maximizing Kenya’s utilization of trade benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).
A U.S.-Kenya Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Roundtable to identify and discuss ways to strengthen commercial cooperation in the SME sector and discuss the benefits to SMEs on both sides of reducing barriers and increasing trade between the United States and Kenya.
Site visit to the Howard University School of Business’ Small Business Development Center to exchange information on U.S. best practices to support the SME sector, which is a priority for President Kenyatta.
Background:
Annual exports of wheat to Kenya from other regions in the United States between January to November 2019 (latest data available) were $27 million.  Kenya’s demand for wheat is expected to substantially increase in the coming years due in part to an expanding food service sector. 
Trade between the two countries stands at about $1 billion a year.  Over 70 percent ($466 million in 2018) of Kenya’s exports to the United States entered under AGOA.
###
Click here to view a fact sheet.


USTR Updates List of Developing and Least-Developed Countries Under U.S. CVD Law
02/10/2020
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) is issuing a Notice in the Federal Register updating its list of countries designated as developing or least-developed under U.S. counter-vailing duty laws.  Federal law specifies certain differential treatment for imports from developing or least-developed countries and obligates USTR to update the designations periodically.  The Notice with the updated lists can be accessed at here, and the final rule can be accessed here.


USTR Issues Report on the WTO Appellate Body
02/11/2020
Washington, DC – The United States Trade Representative is issuing a Report on the Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization.  This Report is the first comprehensive study of the Appellate Body’s record and it provides an in-depth assessment of the Appellate Body’s failure to comply with WTO rules and interpret WTO agreements as written.
As detailed in this Report, the Appellate Body has strayed far from the limited role that WTO Members assigned to it. Through persistent overreaching, the Appellate Body has increased its own power, at the expense of the authority of the United States and other WTO Members. 
The Report demonstrates the Appellate Body’s persistent failure to follow basic WTO rules and highlights several examples of how the Appellate Body has altered WTO Members’ rights and obligations through erroneous interpretations of WTO agreements.  These actions have harmed the United States and its citizens, workers and businesses and have undermined the effectiveness of the WTO dispute settlement system. 
“For more than 20 years, successive Administrations and the U.S. Congress have voiced significant concerns that the Appellate Body has failed to function according to the rules agreed by the United States and other WTO Members,” Ambassador Robert Lighthizer said.  “Unfortunately, the conduct of the Appellate Body has converted the WTO from a forum for discussion and negotiation into a forum for litigation.  President Trump is committed to a trade agenda that benefits all Americans, and a reassessment of the WTO and its role is a key part of that agenda.”
To read the report, click here.


USTR Announces Formation of Bilateral Evaluation and Dispute Resolution Office Pursuant to U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
02/14/2020
Washington, DC –  The Office of the United States Trade Representative today announced the formation of a new Bilateral Evaluation and Dispute Resolution Office, as envisioned by Article 7.2.2 of the Phase One economic and trade agreement signed by the United States and China on January 15, 2020.  This office will monitor China’s implementation of its commitments under the Phase One agreement and will be responsible for working with China’s corresponding Bilateral Evaluation and Dispute Resolution Office to address disputes that arise over implementation matters. 
Ambassador Jeffrey Gerrish will serve as the “designated Deputy United States Trade Representative” heading the new Bilateral Evaluation and Dispute Resolution Office in accordance with Article 7.2.2(a) of the Phase One agreement.  Interested parties may raise their concerns about implementation matters under the Phase One agreement by calling 202-395-3900. 
Background Information:
Chapter 7 of the U.S.-China Phase One economic and trade agreement sets forth an arrangement to ensure the effective implementation of the agreement and to allow the parties to resolve disputes in a fair and expeditious manner. 
This arrangement requires regular bilateral meetings to discuss implementation matters, with the parties meeting on a monthly basis at the “designated official” level, on a quarterly basis at the Deputy United States Trade Representative-Vice Minister level, and on a semi-annual basis at the United States Trade Representative-Vice Premier level. 
Separately, the arrangement also establishes strong procedures for addressing disputes related to the agreement.  A party can formally initiate a dispute by submitting an “Appeal” to the other party’s Bilateral Evaluation and Dispute Resolution Office.  Consultations then take place in an attempt to resolve the dispute, first at the “designated official” level and then, if needed, at the Deputy United States Trade Representative-Vice Minister level and finally at the United States Trade Representative-Vice Premier level.  If the dispute is not resolved through these consultations, the complaining party is allowed to take proportionate responsive action that it deems appropriate after providing advance notice to the party complained against.  The entire dispute resolution process will take approximately 90 days.  In addition, it has been expressly agreed that the complaining party in a dispute is not required to include information that could identify any company at issue or confidential business information.
The Phase One agreement enters into effect today, February 14, 2020.  The text of that agreement can be found here.  


USTR Revises $7.5 Billion Award Implementation Against EU in Airbus Case
02/14/2020
Washington, DC – Under President’s Trump leadership, the United States won the largest award in WTO history on October 2, 2019 when it was authorized to take countermeasures on $7.5 billion in goods after a victory in its unfair trade practices case against the European Union, France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom.  Pursuant to U.S. statute, the United States Trade Representative is now issuing a Notice in the Federal Register making adjustments to its WTO-authorized retaliation action, which was implemented on October 18, 2019. The United States is increasing the additional duty rate imposed on aircraft imported from the EU to 15% from 10%, effective March 18, 2020, and making certain other minor modifications. 
To read the Notice, click here.
For additional background, click here.


Public Hearing on Special 301 Review
02/24/2020
The Office of the United States Trade Representative’s Special 301 Subcommittee will hold a public hearing from 10:00AM – 4:00PM on February 26, 2020, regarding the Special 301 review. Each year, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) conducts a Special 301 review to identify countries that deny adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights or deny fair and equitable market access to U.S. persons who rely on IP protection. Based on this review, USTR determines which, if any, of these countries to identify as Priority Foreign Countries or placement on the Priority Watch List or Watch List.
The hearing will take place at the Office of the United States Trade Representative, Rooms 1 and 2, 1724 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20508.
The Federal Register notice regarding the review and hearing can be viewed here.
Click here to view the witness list.


USDA and USTR Announce Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
02/25/2020
Washington, DC – U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced today that China has taken numerous actions to begin implementing its agriculture-related commitments under the landmark U.S.-China Phase One Economic and Trade Agreement on schedule. The agreement entered into force on February 14, 2020.
These actions include:
Signing a protocol that allows the importation of U.S. fresh chipping potatoes (U.S. Chipping Potatoes Protocol Announcement);
Lifting the ban on imports of U.S. poultry and poultry products, including pet food containing poultry products (Poultry and Poultry Products Announcement);
Lifting restrictions on imports of U.S. pet food containing ruminant material (Pet Food with Ruminant Ingredients Announcement);
Updating lists of facilities approved for exporting animal protein, pet food, dairy, infant formula, and tallow for industry use to China;
Updating the lists of products that can be exported to China as feed additives; and
Updating an approved list of U.S. seafood species that can be exported to China.
In addition, China has begun announcing tariff exclusions for imports of U.S. agricultural products subject to its retaliatory tariffs (Tariff Exclusion Process Announcement), and it announced a reduction in retaliatory tariff rates on certain U.S. agricultural goods (Tariff Rate Adjustment Announcement). These types of actions will facilitate China’s progress toward meeting its Phase One purchase commitments. 
“President Trump and this Administration negotiated a strong trade agreement with China that promises significant benefits for American agriculture,” Secretary Perdue said. “We look forward to realizing these benefits this year and are encouraged by progress made last week. We fully expect compliance with all elements of the deal.” 
Ambassador Lighthizer said, “President Trump signed the Phase One agreement a little more than a month ago and we are already seeing positive results. Under the President’s leadership, we will ensure the agreement is strictly enforced for the benefit of our workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.” 

Trump Trade Agenda Results in ‘Blue-Collar Boom’
02/28/2020
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today delivered President Trump’s Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report to Congress, highlighting how the Administration’s aggressive trade actions have resulted in a “blue-collar boom” with higher wages, more jobs and a stronger economy for all.
The report details several of the Administration’s trade accomplishments over the past year, including the signing of historic trade agreements with Mexico, Canada, China and Japan, as well as enforcement actions and efforts to bring fundamental change to the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Going forward, the report states that President Trump will continue to rebalance America’s trade relationships to benefit American workers, aggressively enforce U.S. trade laws, and take prompt action in response to unfair trade practices by other nations.  The Administration’s goals for the next year include:
New trade agreements with the United Kingdom, the European Union and Kenya, which would be the United States’ first free trade agreement in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Enforcement of commitments by our trading partners in trade agreements, including the USMCA, the China Phase One Agreement and WTO agreements.
Limiting the WTO to its original purpose of serving as a forum for nations to negotiate trade agreements, monitor compliance with agreements, and facilitate the member-driven resolution of international trade disputes.
Congress requires the U.S. Trade Representative to submit the President’s Trade Policy Agenda and Annual Report by March 1 each year.
###
To read a fact sheet, click here.


USTR Statement on 5th U.S.-Bangladesh Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum Agreement Council Meeting
03/05/2020
Washington, DC – The United States-Bangladesh Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum Agreement (TICFA) Council held its fifth meeting on March 5, 2020 in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
During the meeting, the United States and Bangladesh focused on market access for U.S. agricultural products and financial services, as well as the importance of upholding international labor norms. The U.S. noted its concern at the pace of reforms intended to guarantee workers’ rights and safety standards and urged Bangladesh to increase collaboration with private and civil sector stakeholders in its ready-made garment industry.
The U.S. and Bangladesh stated their intent to boost trade and investment opportunities and facilitate the existing flow of goods and services. The participants discussed improvements to the Bangladeshi investment climate needed to achieve this, including effective protection of intellectual property rights; clear regulation and monitoring of the trade in pharmaceuticals and medical devices; commitment to enable the digital economy; support for investors’ right to fair and prompt dispute resolution and arbitration; enforcement of obligations and notifications under WTO agreements; and transparency in government procurement.
The delegations to the TICFA Council meeting were led by Mohammed Jafar Uddin, Secretary, Bangladesh Ministry of Commerce, and Christopher Wilson, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for South and Central Asian Affairs.
Background
The United States – Bangladesh Trade and Investment Cooperation Forum Agreement was signed in 2013. The last TICFA meeting was held on September 13, 2018. Two-way trade in goods with Bangladesh totaled $9 billion in 2019.

Federal Agencies to Hold Public Field Hearings in Florida and Georgia on Seasonal and Perishable Produce
03/05/2020
Washington, DC -- The Office of the United States Trade Representative, the United States Department of Agriculture, and the United States Department of Commerce will hold public hearings in Florida and Georgia on April 7 and April 9 to discuss foreign trade policies that may be harming American growers of seasonal and perishable produce.  At the hearings, officials from the federal agencies will hear from interested persons on how the Trump Administration can support these producers and redress any unfair harm.
The field hearings are scheduled for the following dates and locations:
Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. ET:  Grimes Family Agricultural Center, 2508 W. Oak Avenue, Plant City, Florida
Thursday, April 9, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. ET:  Rainwater Conference Center, 1 Meeting Place, Valdosta, Georgia
The Federal Register notice with instructions on how to participate in the hearings and submit written materials can be viewed here.


USTR Releases Annual Reports on WTO Compliance of China and Russia
03/06/2020
Washington, DC – As required by U.S. law, today the United States Trade Representative released annual reports assessing China`s and Russia`s implementation of their respective World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments.
China, which became a member of the WTO in 2001, and Russia, which became a member of the WTO in 2012, present significant and distinct challenges for WTO Members and the multilateral trading system.
The report on Russia’s WTO compliance can be found here.
The report on China’s WTO compliance can be found here.


Ambassador Lighthizer Statement on Canada's Approval of the USMCA
03/13/2020
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today commented on the Canadian Parliament’s approval of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA):
“Now that the USMCA has been approved by all three countries, an historic new chapter for North American trade has begun.  This landmark achievement would not be possible without President Trump’s leadership and determination to strengthen our economy, and the hard work of our negotiating partners in Canada and Mexico.  USMCA is the gold standard by which all future trade agreements will be judged, and citizens of all three countries will benefit for years to come.”
Background:
USMCA was signed into law by President Donald J. Trump on January 29, 2020, after it received overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress.  The President was elected on replacing NAFTA with an agreement that puts American workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses first. He achieved this goal with the USMCA, an agreement that will bring manufacturing jobs back, help service industry workers, and raise wages.
All three countries are working together closely on implementation in advance of the Agreement’s entry into force.


Ambassador Lighthizer Comments on President Trump’s Decision to Declare a National Emergency
03/13/2020
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s decision to declare a national emergency in the fight against the coronavirus:
“From the beginning, President Trump has made the safety, security and health of the American people his number one priority.  The aggressive action he is taking unleashes the full power of the Federal Government to forcefully and proactively respond to this challenge.”


Coronavirus: Resources, Updates, and What You Should Know
03/13/2020
Visit the following webpages for more information:
Coronavirus.gov
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
What the U.S. Government is Doing


Trump Administration Notifies Congress of Intent to Negotiate Trade Agreement with Kenya
03/17/2020
Washington, DC – At the direction of President Donald J. Trump, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today notified Congress that the Trump Administration will negotiate a trade agreement with Kenya.
“Under President Trump’s leadership, we look forward to negotiating and concluding a comprehensive, high-standard agreement with Kenya that can serve as a model for additional trade agreements across Africa.  Kenya is an important regional leader, a strategic partner of the United States, and a commercial hub that can provide substantial opportunities for U.S. trade and investment,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.
In officially notifying Congress, the U.S. Trade Representative is following the procedures set out in the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 – often referred to as Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) – which requires ongoing consultations with Congress.  These consultations ensure that USTR develops negotiating positions with the benefit of Congress’ views.  USTR will also publish a notice in the Federal Register requesting the public’s input on the direction, focus and content of the trade negotiations.
In accordance with TPA, the U.S. Trade Representative will publish objectives of the negotiations with Kenya at least 30 days before formal trade negotiations begin.
To read the notification letter sent to Speaker Pelosi, click here.
To read the notification letter sent to Representative McCarthy, click here.
To read the notification letter sent to Senator Schumer, click here.
To read the notification letter sent to Senator Grassley, click here.
Key Trade Statistics
Two-way goods trade between the United States and Kenya: $1.1 billion in 2019, up 4.9% from 2018.
 
Top U.S. goods exports to Kenya in 2019: aircraft ($59 million), plastics ($58 million), machinery ($41 million), and cereals (wheat) ($27 million).
 
Top U.S. imports from Kenya in 2019: apparel ($454 million), edible fruit & nuts (mostly nuts) ($55 million), titanium ores and concentrates ($52 million), and coffee ($34 million).
Public Field Hearings in Florida and Georgia on Seasonal and Perishable Produce Postponed
03/18/2020
Washington, DC -- Consistent with recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the field hearings scheduled in Florida and Georgia on April 7 and April 9 by the U.S. Trade Representative and the U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Commerce will be postponed and rescheduled at a later date.
Interested parties are still encouraged to submit written comments and information via Regulations.gov here. The original deadline for written submissions—March 26, 2020—has been waived.  The public docket will remain open and will accept written submissions during this period of postponement, and new submission deadlines will be announced in connection with the announcement of new hearing dates.
The Federal Register notice with instructions on how to submit written materials can be viewed here.


USTR: Response to Coronavirus Crisis
03/20/2020
Invites Public Comments to Identify Additional Products Potentially Helpful to U.S. Response
Washington, DC – Throughout the process of administering its Section 301 action to combat China’s acts, policies and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation, the United States has prioritized health considerations, and it is taking additional action for that objective today.
In imposing tariffs on goods from China as part of the Section 301 action, the United States determined to not impose tariffs on certain critical products such as ventilators, oxygen masks, and nebulizers.  In addition, over the past year, USTR granted exclusions for a large number of health-related products.  Notably, the imposition of tariffs on certain Chinese imports has not resulted in an overall decline in the availability of needed medical equipment and supplies.  In fact, U.S. imports in 2019 of all critical medical and pharmaceutical products were up over 20 percent since 2017, before Section 301 tariffs were imposed.
Prior to the coronavirus outbreak, USTR and the Department of Health and Human Services worked together to ensure that critical medicines and other essential medical products were not subject to additional Section 301 tariffs, including parts needed for MRI devices, combined PET/CT scanners, certain radiation therapy equipment, air purification equipment, and parts of homecare beds; sterile electrosurgical tools; digital clinical thermometers; and more.
Today, in an effort to keep current on developments in our national fight against the coronavirus pandemic, USTR has opened a docket for members of the public, businesses, and government agencies to submit comments if they believe further modifications to the 301 tariffs may be necessary.  This comment process does not replace the current exclusion process and supplements that process.  Submissions are limited to comments on products subject to the tariff actions and relevant to the medical response to the coronavirus.
Interested parties wishing to provide comments can do so here.


USDA and USTR Announce Continued Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
03/24/2020
Washington, DC – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced continued progress in the implementation of the agriculture-related provisions of the U.S.-China Phase One Economic and Trade Agreement. The Agreement entered into force on February 14, 2020, and the recent actions described below build upon the actions announced by USDA and USTR on February 25 and March 10.
Among the recent actions:
Both countries signed a regionalization agreement that, in the event of a detection of highly pathogenic avian influenza or virulent Newcastle disease in a particular region of the United States, will allow U.S. poultry exports from unaffected regions of the country to continue (APHIS Regionalization Protocol Announcement). This action will help protect the increased access American farmers have gained in China’s poultry market.  U.S. poultry exports have the potential to exceed $1 billion per year.
China notified the United States of proposed maximum residue levels for three hormones commonly used in U.S. beef production. This recognition by China of safe and science-based U.S. production methods particularly benefits trade with China in beef, a fast-growing market that imported $8.4 billion worth of beef products in 2019.
U.S. beef producers, for the first time since 2003, will have access for nearly all beef products into China. U.S. pork producers will also be able to significantly expand the types of pork products shipped to China.  As per the Agreement, China expanded its internal list of U.S. beef and pork products eligible to enter its ports, including processed meat products (Updated Beef and Pork Product Lists).  On the beef and beef products list, China removed all references to age restrictions, in line with its February 24 announcement that conditionally lifted restrictions on beef and beef products from cattle aged 30 months and older (Lifting Restriction on U.S. Beef 30 Months and Over Announcement).  USDA estimates that American cattlemen could export up to $1 billion per year under this improved trading environment. China also published an updated list of 938 U.S. beef and pork establishments eligible to export to China. The USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service export library has been updated to reflect these changes. China has agreed to import all beef, pork, and poultry products except for those included in Annex 1 (Beef, Pork, and Poultry Products Considered Not Eligible for Import into China) of Chapter 3 of the U.S.-China Phase One Economic and Trade Agreement. U.S. ranchers and farmers can expect to increase their market share in China as a result of these actions.
China updated its list of U.S. facilities eligible to export distillers dried grains with solubles (DDGS) (Updated DDGS Facility List).  In 2015, U.S. producers exported $1.6 billion worth of DDGS to China.  This action, if coupled with the removal of other trade barriers, will allow U.S. exporters to recapture this market.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration published a notice to facilitate the registration of animal feed manufacturing facilities for export to China (FDA Notice to Animal Food Exporters).  In addition, in response to delays caused by the COVID-19 outbreak, China announced a streamlined process for registering new U.S. feed products for export (Updated Registration Process Announcement).
In addition, China’s market-based tariff exclusion process is in effect, and many importers report that they are receiving tariff relief for purchases of U.S. food and agricultural products.  USDA continues to publish guidance for U.S. exporters seeking to participate in this process (USDA Global Agricultural Information Network).
“These steps show that China is moving in the right direction to implement the Phase One agreement,” Secretary Perdue said. “We will continue to work with China to ensure full implementation of its commitments and look forward to seeing further improvement and progress as we continue our ongoing bilateral discussions.”
“We are working with China on a daily basis as we implement the Phase One trade agreement,” Ambassador Lighthizer said. “We recognize China’s efforts to keep the commitments in the agreement and look forward to continuing our work together on trade matters.”   


USTR Announces Specialty Sugar Tariff-Rate Quota Tranches Adjustments and Opening Dates
03/25/2020
Washington, D.C. - The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today announced notice of a change in the quantity and opening dates for the fourth and fifth tranches of the specialty sugar tariff-rate quota (TRQ).
To read the notice in the Federal Register, click here.


Remarks by Ambassador Lighthizer at G20 Virtual Ministerial
03/30/2020
I would like to say thank you to the Saudi Presidency for convening this important meeting today and for your strong leadership throughout this entire year. 
As the last speaker, I can say I found all the interventions informative and encouraging.  There is much in each with which we agree.  We are also grateful to the thoughtful presentations of the six international organizations.  Together there is wisdom in what people have said today and it’s encouraging that we will get through this crisis. 
On behalf of the United States, let me wish a rapid return to good health to all countries represented on this call and others throughout the world.  We are indeed in a grave crisis, but our strength is that we are in this crisis together. 
Like others, I want to emphasize the importance of preserving human life.  This is the number one priority of the United States.  At times like this, all sovereign nations must put the interests of their own citizens first, but they must be very concerned also about the citizens of other countries throughout the world — particularly, those least able to take care of themselves. 
Let us remember, this is in the first instance a health crisis.  We must find a health solution as soon as possible.  The United States is putting great resources behind that and, I’m happy to say, we are working in close coordination with other countries throughout the world to find a solution.  If we solve the health issue quickly, we will have less of an economic crisis. 
Now, all countries are trying to get a handle on how best to support our economies, while also ensuring the non-disruption of supply chains that are necessary to deliver critical medical supplies and agricultural products for citizens.  Unfortunately, like others, we are learning in this crisis that over-dependence on other countries as a source of cheap medical products and supplies has created a strategic vulnerability to our economy.  For the United States, we are encouraging diversification of supply chains and seeking to promote more manufacturing at home. 
President Trump’s economic policies are helping to overcome our vulnerabilities by tackling the supply side constraints and encouraging companies to increase production.  We have a whole-of-government approach to produce more supplies for ourselves and for others throughout the world. 
We recognize that not every country has the ability to boost domestic sources of supply and we agree with leaders that our primary goal is to resolve disruptions in global supply chains that can support the health and well-being of all our citizens. 
In short, on trade, we believe actions taken should be temporary, transparent, and appropriate.  We should do as little as possible to disrupt supply chains and be cognizant of the effects on our neighbors, as I said, particularly those least able to take care of themselves. 
I suggest that we stay focused on this crisis and not try to use it to push other agendas, either in trade or other areas.  This will only seed distrust and lead all of us to setbacks in our objectives in the long run.  Let us not make long-term decisions in the midst of a crisis.  I suggest that we should get through this together, gather all the information we can, and then make decisions for the future to ensure that these things don’t happen to the world again. 
Let me assure you that our government will bring back our economy, stronger and better than ever.  We have committed $6.2 trillion to this endeavor.  This is good news for the United States, but I believe it is also good news for all countries of the world.  This should be encouraging to all of you that we will get through this successfully. 
Let me end where I began, we are all in this grave crisis together and I believe we will all get through it together.  Thank you very much, Mr. President.


Report Highlights Accomplishments in Reducing Foreign Trade Barriers to American Exports
03/31/2020
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today issued the 2020 National Trade Estimate (NTE), an annual report detailing foreign trade barriers faced by U.S. exporters of goods and services and USTR’s efforts to reduce those barriers.
“Under President Trump’s leadership, the Administration is working constantly to help strengthen our economy by reducing and eliminating foreign barriers to American exports,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.  “As this report shows, we continue to win significant trade victories for our workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses, both large and small.”
To read the 2020 National Trade Estimate, click here.
Background:
The NTE is the U.S. government’s major annual report on the barriers to trade and investment that American exporters and their workers encounter around the world.  USTR submits the report to the President and Congress by March 31 of each year.  In preparing the NTE, USTR works closely with other U.S. government agencies and embassies.
Fact Sheets:
For a fact sheet on the major developments in the 2020 NTE, click here.
For a fact sheet on agricultural measures highlighted in the 2020 NTE, click here.
For a fact sheet on digital trade issues highlighted in the 2020 NTE, click here.








USTR Announces Fiscal Year 2020 Allocation of Additional Tariff-Rate Quota Volume for Raw Cane Sugar and Refined Sugar
04/09/2020
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative today announced country-specific and first-come, first-served in-quota additional allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported raw cane sugar, refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 (October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020).  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product into the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On April 3, 2020, (85 FR 18913) the Secretary of Agriculture announced an additional in-quota quantity of the TRQ for raw cane sugar for the remainder of FY 2020 (ending September 30, 2020) in the amount of 317,515 metric tons raw value (MTRV).  This quantity is in addition to the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Uruguay
Round Agreements (1,117,195 MTRV).  USTR is allocating this additional quantity of 317,515 MTRV to the following countries in the amounts specified below:                                            
Country	FY 2020 Raw Sugar TRQ Increase Allocation (MTRV)
Argentina	19,185
Australia	37,032
Barbados	3,123
Belize	4,908
Bolivia	3,569
Brazil	64,694
Colombia	10,708
Costa Rica	6,692
DR	30,000
Ecuador	4,908
El Salvador	11,600
Eswatini (Swaziland)	7,139
Fiji	4,015
Guatemala	21,417
Guyana	5,354
Honduras	4,462
India	3,569
Malawi	4,462
Mauritius	5,354
Mozambique	5,800
Nicaragua	9,369
Panama	10,000
Peru	18,293
South Africa	10,262
Thailand	6,246
Zimbabwe	5,354
Total	317,515
USTR based these allocations on the countries’ historical shipments to the United States. The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country for which an allocation has been provided.
The Secretary of Agriculture also announced an increase in the FY 2020 refined sugar TRQ of 181,437 MTRV.  USTR is allocating 5,000 MTRV of the additional quantity to Canada and the rest of the increase (176,437 MTRV) to the global tariff-rate quota, which may be supplied by any country on a first-come, first-served basis in seven tranches as follows:
Month	Day	FY 2020 Refined Sugar TRQ Increased Allocation (MTRV)
April	13	95,000
April	27	20,000
May	11	15,000
May	18	12,000
June	1	12,000
June	15	12,000
June	29	10,437
No certificate for quota eligibility is required for sugar entering under the global TRQ for refined sugar.
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.
To read the notice in the Federal Register, click here.
Statement on Call Between Ambassador Lighthizer and Brazilian Foreign Minister Araújo
04/10/2020
Washington, DC –  Ambassador Lighthizer spoke Thursday by telephone with Ernesto Araújo, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil, and several other senior Brazilian officials.  The call was a follow up to the meeting last month between Presidents Trump and Bolsonaro in Florida.  The two ministers discussed ways to implement the plan of the presidents to intensify the economic partnership between the two countries.  They agreed to increase and deepen discussions under the auspices of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation (ATEC).  The ATEC will meet by phone next week to discuss more specifics on areas of agreement as well as certain concerns that exist in our trading relationship.
USTR will also consult with Congress in the coming weeks to seek guidance on how best to expand trade and develop our economic relationship.


Brazil - U.S. Joint Statement on Enhancement of Bilateral Economic and Trade Partnership
04/17/2020
Washington, DC - On April 9, the U.S. Trade Representative and Brazil’s Foreign Minister and other senior officials, held a teleconference to discuss US-Brazil trade relations.  On April 16, high-level representatives from the USTR and from Brazil’s Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Economy, and Agriculture  discussed the implementation of an ambitious economic and trade agenda between Brazil and the United States as agreed by Presidents Jair Bolsonaro and Donald Trump in their meeting at Mar-A-Lago, on March 7, 2020.  This shared vision and the goals established by the two Presidents point towards a transformative and strategic engagement between both countries in their trade and economic partnership.
Both countries agreed to accelerate their ongoing trade dialogue under the Brazil-U.S. Commission on Economic and Trade Relations (ATEC) with a view to concluding in 2020 an agreement on trade rules and transparency, including trade facilitation and good regulatory practices. They also agreed to engage in domestic consultations, consistent with each country’s domestic procedures, to solicit input on how best to expand trade and develop the bilateral economic relationship.
The ATEC Commission will remain the locus for further engagement, through frequent contacts and meetings, in order to advance in the short-term agenda as well as in the preparatory work towards a deeper partnership.


CBP Implementing Instructions and Procedures for the Submissions of Petitions Regarding USMCA Rules of Origin
04/21/2020
The United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has posted implementing instructions on its website to provide additional detail and instruction for compliance with the automotive rules of origin under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).  The instructions are available HERE.  CBP developed these instructions in close consultation with USTR and the Department of Labor.  These instructions are not final and are subject to further revision, but they are intended to supplement information already available in the Agreement itself and the implementing legislation to provide clarity to the automotive industry on the new requirements for compliance under USMCA.
USTR has also announced the procedures for the submission of petitions by North American producers of passenger vehicles or light trucks to use the alternative staging regime for the USMCA rules of origin for automotive goods.  These procedures will be published in the Federal Register available HERE.  The Agreement already includes a standard staging regime available to all vehicle producers, but it also allows vehicle producers to request an alternative staging regime that would permit a longer period of transition to help ensure that future production is able to meet the new rules.  The Federal Register Notice identifies the information a vehicle producer must include in its alternative staging proposal, as well as procedures for submission.  To be assured of consideration, a vehicle producer must submit a petition with a draft alternative staging plan no later than July 1, 2020, and a vehicle producer must submit a petition with its final alternative staging plan no later than August 31, 2020.


USMCA To Enter Into Force July 1 After United States Takes Final Procedural Steps For Implementation
04/24/2020
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today notified Congress that Canada and Mexico have taken measures necessary to comply with their commitments under the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA), and that the Agreement will enter into force on July 1, 2020.  Following that notification to Congress, the United States became the third country to notify the other Parties that it had completed its domestic procedures to implement the agreement—the final step necessary for the USMCA to enter into force.
The USMCA’s entry into force marks the beginning of a historic new chapter for North American trade by supporting more balanced, reciprocal trade, leading to freer markets, fairer trade, and robust economic growth in North America.  The Agreement contains significant improvements and modernized approaches to rules of origin, agricultural market access, intellectual property, digital trade, financial services, labor, and numerous other sectors.  These enhancements will deliver more jobs, provide stronger labor protections, and expand market access, creating new opportunities for American workers, farmers, and ranchers.
“The crisis and recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic demonstrates that now, more than ever, the United States should strive to increase manufacturing capacity and investment in North America. The USMCA’s entry into force is a landmark achievement in that effort.  Under President Trump’s leadership, USTR will continue working to ensure a smooth implementation of the USMCA so that American workers and businesses can enjoy the benefits of the new agreement,” said Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.


USTR Releases Annual Special 301 Report on Intellectual Property Protection and Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy
04/29/2020
Washington, DC - The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released its annual Special 301 Report on the adequacy and effectiveness of trading partners’ protection of intellectual property rights and the findings of its Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy (the Review), which highlights online and physical markets that reportedly engage in and facilitate substantial trademark counterfeiting and copyright piracy.
“The Trump Administration is committed to holding intellectual property rights violators accountable and to ensuring that American innovators and creators have a full and fair opportunity to use and profit from their work,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “Over the last year, USTR has secured strong and enforceable obligations on intellectual property in our historic agreements with China, Canada, and Mexico.  The two reports issued today illustrate the Administration’s commitment to protecting intellectual property rights and combatting counterfeiting and piracy in online and physical markets.”
Special 301 Report
The Special 301 Report identifies trading partners that do not adequately or effectively protect and enforce intellectual property (IP) rights or otherwise deny market access to U.S. innovators and creators that rely on protection of their IP rights.
Trading partners that currently present the most significant concerns regarding IP rights are placed on the Priority Watch List or Watch List.  USTR identified 33 countries for these lists in the Special 301 Report:
Algeria, Argentina, Chile, China, India, Indonesia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine and Venezuela are on the Priority Watch List.
 
Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Guatemala, Kuwait, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Romania, Thailand, Trinidad & Tobago, Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan and Vietnam are on the Watch List.
 
USTR also announced Out-of-Cycle Reviews for Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.
These trading partners will be the subject of increased bilateral engagement with USTR to address IP concerns.  Over the coming weeks, USTR will review the developments against the benchmarks established in the Special 301 action plans for those countries.  For countries failing to address U.S. concerns, USTR will take appropriate actions, which may include enforcement actions under Section 301 of the Trade Act or pursuant to World Trade Organization (WTO) or other trade agreement dispute settlement procedures.
As part of the Special 301 review process, USTR invited public comments and held a public hearing that featured testimony from witnesses representing foreign governments, industry, and non-governmental organizations.  USTR also offered a post-hearing comment period during which hearing participants could submit additional information.   
Click here to read the 2020 Special 301 public hearing transcript.
Click here to view the video recording of the 2020 Special 301 public hearing.
To read the Special 301 Report, click here.  
Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy
The Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy highlights 38 online markets and 34 physical markets that are reported to engage in or facilitate substantial trademark counterfeiting and copyright piracy.  This activity harms the American economy by undermining the innovation and intellectual property rights of U.S. IP owners in foreign markets.  An estimated 2.5 percent, or nearly half a trillion dollars’ worth, of imports worldwide are counterfeit and pirated products.
The Review maintains its special focus on the distribution of pirated content and counterfeit goods online.  This year, the Review contains an “Issue Focus” that explores the nexus between online piracy and malware.  The Review also continues to discuss emerging piracy models, including illicit streaming devices, “stream-ripping,” and piracy portals and apps that cause major damage to the digital marketplace for legitimate music, movies, and television. 
In addition, consistent with the April 2019 Presidential Memorandum on Combatting Trafficking in Counterfeit and Pirated Goods, this year’s Review has an expanded discussion on the challenges related to counterfeit and pirated goods on e-commerce platforms and third-party marketplaces.  USTR will continue to address the issue of counterfeit and pirated goods with our trading partners and is considering seeking more information regarding e-commerce platforms, including those based in the United States, in future reports.
The Review does not constitute an exhaustive list of all markets reported to deal in pirated or counterfeit goods around the world, nor does it reflect findings of legal violations or the U.S. Government’s analysis of the general IP protection and enforcement climate in the country concerned.  USTR initiated this Review on August 19, 2019 through publication in the Federal Register a request for public comments.  The request for comments and the public’s responses are online at www.regulations.gov, Docket number USTR-2019-0013.
To read the Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy, click here.


Joint Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer and UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss
05/05/2020
Washington, DC –  Today, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and United Kingdom Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss announced the formal launch of trade agreement negotiations between the U.S. and the UK. 
In light of the ongoing global pandemic caused by Covid-19, the first round of negotiations will be conducted virtually, with U.S. and UK negotiators engaging in discussions over the next two weeks in nearly 30 different negotiating groups covering all aspects of a comprehensive trade agreement. 
Both parties agree that a Free Trade Agreement would contribute to the long-term health of our economies, which is vitally important as we recover from the challenges posed by Covid-19.
An FTA is a priority for both countries and we share a commitment to secure an ambitious agreement that significantly boosts trade and investment. We will undertake negotiations at an accelerated pace and have committed the resources necessary to progress at a fast pace.
United States Trade Representative Lighthizer said: “Under the leadership of President Trump, the United States will negotiate an ambitious and high-standard trade agreement with the UK that will strengthen our economies, support good-paying jobs and substantially improve opportunities for trade and investment between our two countries.  This will be an historic agreement that is consistent with U.S. priorities and the negotiating objectives established by Congress in U.S. law.” 
UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss said: “The US is our largest trading partner and increasing transatlantic trade can help our economies bounce back from the economic challenge posed by Coronavirus. We want to strike an ambitious deal that opens up new opportunities for our businesses, brings in more investment and creates better jobs for people across the whole of the country. As the Prime Minister has said, the UK is a champion of free trade and this deal will make it even easier to do business with our friends across the pond.”
The US negotiating team will be led by Dan Mullaney, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Europe and the Middle East; and the UK negotiating team will be led by Oliver Griffiths, Director for US Negotiations at the Department for International Trade. Over 200 staff from U.S. and UK government agencies and departments are expected to take part in the negotiations. 
An opening plenary today will kick off the detailed discussions, followed by multiple virtual meetings from Wednesday 6 May to Friday 15 May.  The negotiations build on the work conducted through the U.S.-UK Trade and Investment Working Group, which was established in July 2017, partly to lay the ground work for these negotiations.
A comprehensive U.S.-UK trade agreement will further deepen the already very strong trade and investment ties between the United States and UK by creating new opportunities for American and UK families, workers, businesses and farmers through increased access to the other’s market.  
The United States and the United Kingdom are the first and fifth largest economies in the world, respectively.  Total two-way trade between the two countries is already worth about $269 billion a year.  Each country is the other’s largest source of foreign direct investment, with about $1 trillion invested in each other’s economies.  Every day, around one million Americans go to work for UK firms, while around one million Britons go to work for American firms. 
The U.S.-UK trade agreement will be a modern agreement designed for the highly advanced and sophisticated U.S. and UK economies.  Both governments are committed to maintaining high levels of health, safety, and environmental protection that will serve as a model free trade agreement for the world.
Background:
USTR notified Congress in October 2018 of the Trump Administration’s intent to negotiate a trade agreement with the UK.  In February 2019, USTR published the U.S. negotiating objectives for the UK.
The Department for International Trade published the UK government’s negotiation objectives on 2 March 2020. Click here for more information.


Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Launch of U.S.-UK Trade Negotiations
05/05/2020
Washington, DC –   Below is a transcript of United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer’s opening remarks at the formal launch of trade negotiations between the United States and the United Kingdom:
I would like to begin by offering the sympathy and solidarity of the United States to all the citizens of the United Kingdom who are suffering from the coronavirus scourge. These are difficult times for both our countries and we are each made stronger by our friendship.
I am happy to formally open negotiations that will hopefully lead to a free trade agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom. I need not dwell on the unique relationship that our two countries have. Ours is among the most important alliances in human history.
A little less than a year ago on June 3, 2019, President Trump was visiting the United Kingdom on the occasion of the 75th Anniversary of D-Day. In his toast at the State dinner, the President paid appropriate homage to the Queen’s great accomplishments and then he addressed the broader relationship by saying: “The bond between our nations was forever sealed in that ‘Great Crusade.’ As we honor our shared victory and heritage, we affirm the common values that will unite us long into the future: freedom, sovereignty, self-determination, the rule of law, and reverence for the rights given to us by Almighty God.”
Indeed, this bond also has long had an economic aspect. We each have large economies.  For many years we have been very closely connected. There is almost $270 billion in two-way trade, we are each other’s largest source of foreign investment and we each employ about a million citizens of the other country. This I would suggest is a strong start.
Our objective in these talks is to grow this economic relationship even closer. Our ambition is to write an agreement that has high standards in the digital and other services sectors, that will eliminate barriers to trade and that will incorporate best practices in all sectors. If we are successful, benefit will flow to workers, farmers, and businessmen on both sides of the Atlantic.
This current COVID-19 health crisis makes these talks even more urgent. While this is at first a health crisis, each of us is also facing an economic crisis perhaps like never before. But we need to prepare now for the day when the health crisis recedes and lay the foundations for stronger, more resilient economies. 
This crisis has demonstrated how important it is to have strong and diverse supply chains with trusted trade partners to support our economies.  It has shown that we need to have a healthy manufacturing base and workers and farmers that are thriving.  It has shown that depending purely on cheap imports for strategic products can make us vulnerable in times of crisis.  Moreover, it has confirmed that we need to think carefully about our trade policies and how we work with our trading partners.
Finally, I would note that President Trump and Prime Minister Johnson have tasked you, Secretary of State Truss, and me to work diligently on these talks. I know we are both committing the necessary resources. Speaking for the American side, we look forward to getting underway, to hard work, and hopefully a successful outcome that makes workers, farmers, and businessmen in both our countries more prosperous and happier.  Now let’s get started.
To watch a video of the opening statements, click here.


U.S. Notifies Full Compliance in WTO Aircraft Dispute
05/06/2020
Termination of Washington State Tax Break Eliminates Any Basis for EU tariffs
Washington, D.C. – The United States notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) today that it has fully complied in the dispute brought by the European Union (EU) regarding U.S. subsidies to Boeing.  In April 2019, the WTO found that the Washington State Business & Occupation (B&O) tax rate reduction continued to breach WTO subsidy rules.  At that time, the EU was unsuccessful on the remainder of its challenges to 29 state and federal programs alleged to harm Airbus.
Washington enacted Senate Bill 6690 on March 25, 2020, which eliminated a preferential tax rate for aerospace manufacturing.  The removal of the subsidy fully implements the WTO’s recommendation to the United States, bringing an end to this long-running dispute.
“With Washington State’s repeal of this relatively minor tax reduction, the United States has fully implemented the WTO’s recommendation, ending this dispute,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  “This step ensures that there is no valid basis for the EU to retaliate against any U.S. goods.  For more than 15 years, the United States has called on European governments to end their illegal aircraft subsidies.  We will continue to press the EU to negotiate a resolution that respects the WTO’s findings.”
In an ongoing arbitration, the EU is seeking countermeasures of approximately $10 billion per year.  Most of that amount is attributable to the Washington B&O tax rate reduction that Washington has now repealed.  Moreover, a substantial portion is based on aeronautics R&D measures that were not found to violate WTO rules in the compliance proceeding, and therefore, cannot serve as a basis for countermeasures.  Accordingly, there is no valid basis for the EU to retaliate against any U.S. goods in this dispute. 
Background
After many years of seeking unsuccessfully to convince the EU and four of its member States (France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom) to cease their subsidization of Airbus, in 2004 the United States brought a WTO challenge to EU subsidies.  The EU responded by challenging what it claimed were even larger subsidies to Boeing by the United States. 
Two separate WTO panels addressed the claims brought by the United States and the EU, respectively. The two processes resulted in two very different sets of WTO findings and subsequent respondent actions.  
The U.S. Claims Against the EU
In 2011, the WTO found that the EU provided Airbus $17 billion in subsidized financing from 1968 to 2006, and that European “launch aid” subsidies breached WTO rules because they were instrumental in permitting Airbus to launch every model of its large civil aircraft, causing Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and to lose market share throughout the world. 
In response, the EU removed two minor subsidies, but left most of them unchanged.  The EU also granted Airbus more than $5 billion in new subsidized “launch aid” financing for its A350 XWB family of aircraft.  The United States filed a complaint in March 2012 alleging that the EU not only had failed to comply with the WTO’s findings but had further breached WTO rules through the new subsidized financing for the A350 XWB. 
The WTO compliance panel and appellate reports found that EU subsidies to high-value, twin-aisle aircraft continued to cause serious prejudice to U.S. interests.  The reports found that billions of dollars in launch aid to the A350 XWB cause significant lost sales of Boeing 787 aircraft.  The reports also found that subsidies to the A380 continue to cause significant lost sales of Boeing aircraft, as well as impedance of exports of Boeing very large aircraft to the EU, Australia, China, Korea, Singapore, and UAE markets.  
In 2018, the United States requested authority to impose countermeasures commensurate with the adverse effects that the EU subsidies continued to cause.  The EU challenged the U.S. estimate, and a WTO arbitrator found that the annual adverse effects to the United States amounted to $7.5 billion per year.  The United States imposed countermeasures in October 2019, consistent with the WTO’s authorization.
The EU Claims Against the United States
The EU’s original 2004 complaint alleged that the United States provided unlawful subsidies to Boeing.  In that dispute, the WTO found that the United States provided Boeing with $3.2-4.3 billion in subsidized research and development funding, certain federal tax benefits, and the Washington State preferential B&O tax, with far more limited market effects than the EU’s subsidies to Airbus, which enabled launch of entirely new aircraft programs.
In response to the WTO’s findings, the United States modified the research and development funding and revoked much of the tax benefits, which in its view removed any adverse effects to the EU from Washington B&O tax rate reduction.  The EU then filed a compliance challenge in October 2012 alleging that the United States failed to comply with the findings against it.  The WTO compliance panel issued a report in June 2017, which rejected 28 of the EU’s 29 claims.  The appellate report likewise found only that the Washington B&O tax rate reduction continued to cause adverse effects to Airbus.  The EU subsequently asked a WTO arbitrator in 2019 to determine the level of countermeasures it could take in response to U.S. non-compliance.  The decision in the arbitration is expected later this year.


USTR and Treasury Statement on Call With China
05/07/2020
Vice Premier Liu He, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin, and Ambassador Robert Lighthizer participated in a conference call today.  They discussed economic and trade issues, including the recently concluded Phase One agreement.  The parties shared updates on COVID-19 and their assessments of its effects on economic growth as well as the measures their countries are taking to provide support to their economies. 
The parties discussed the ongoing process of implementing the Phase One agreement between the two countries that went into effect February 14.  Both sides agreed that good progress is being made on creating the governmental infrastructures necessary to make the agreement a success.  They also agreed that in spite of the current global health emergency, both countries fully expect to meet their obligations under the agreement in a timely manner.  Meetings required by the agreement have been conducted via conference call and will continue on a regular basis.


Second G20 Extraordinary Trade and Investment Ministers Meeting: Remarks of Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer (May 14, 2020)
05/14/2020
Thank you to the Saudi Presidency for convening this important meeting today and for your strong leadership throughout the year.  To you we say, Ramadan Mubarak.
Listening carefully to the previous interventions, I am pleased that there is much in each with which we agree.  This greatly facilitates our job of finalizing the list of collective actions that can be taken in response to COVID-19. 
Of course, the U.S. response will continue to be driven by the crisis we are facing at home.  More Americans have been infected with and died from COVID-19 than any other nationality.  As of this past Tuesday, May 12, the United States counted nearly 1.4 million known COVID cases, and over 84,000 deaths.  
Addressing these matters of life and death is the most important priority for President Trump and the entire U.S. government. At the same time, we are fully aware that it is important to bolster the economy, at home and worldwide, as the courageous health professionals and scientists do their work.  On this, the United States is doing its part:
Americans have provided nearly $6.5 billion in government and non-government assistance and donations to the global COVID-19 response.  This amount accounts for nearly 60% of global contributions and represents the largest country total in the world.
 
The United States Federal Reserve has taken aggressive actions to support markets, businesses, and financial stability at home and abroad, providing lending up to $2.3 trillion to U.S. households and businesses and cutting the rate it charges on exchange swaps with central banks all around the world.
 
The United States Congress has appropriated well over $3 trillion in economic support, a sum equivalent to 15 percent of U.S. GDP, and 3 percent of world GDP.  This support for American businesses and families promotes sustained consumption – which in turn helps supports economies around the world. 
 
So with respect to the economics of this crisis, the United States is acting with urgency on a large scale – to national as well as global benefit. 
The collective actions we are endorsing today will complement these unilateral actions.  The United States strongly supports efforts that can better facilitate trade, promote transparency, bolster logistics networks, and help the small businesses most affected by the crisis. 
We share the collective interest in continuing to promote the necessary reforms to the WTO and taking steps to address the strategic vulnerabilities in global supply chains. 
We are learning in this time of crisis how dependent we all are on the digital economy, and the need to better facilitate digital trade. 
We also know that upholding market-oriented conditions will be even more important as we eventually phase out the emergency stimulus measures.  
But while we are in the midst of the crisis, we caution against embarking upon new plurilateral tariff cutting negotiations, or trying to dictate what the future role of the WTO may be in terms of addressing longer-term actions.  Indeed, we find it inappropriate to use this crisis, which has been tragic for the global community, to push other agendas.
Thank you again, Mr. President, for calling this meeting and for your leadership.  We support the statement of this meeting.


USDA and USTR Announce Continued Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
05/21/2020
WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced additional progress in the implementation of the agriculture-related provisions of the U.S.-China Phase One Economic and Trade Agreement (The Agreement), which entered into force on February 14, 2020. Recent actions described below build upon the actions announced by USDA and USTR on February 25, March 10, and March 24.  These are difficult times for both our countries.  It is important that we each continue to work to make our agreement a success.  Because of this continued progress due to the Agreement:
U.S. blueberries and California Hass avocados can now be exported to China.  This new market access will provide California avocado growers and blueberry growers from around the United States with new opportunities to market their products to Chinese consumers in the coming years.  In 2019, China imported a record volume of fresh fruits and vegetables exceeding $8.6 billion.   
 
U.S. barley for processing, along with the forage products Timothy hay, alfalfa hay pellets and cubes, and almond meal pellets and cubes can now be exported to China.  In 2019, China imported $1.5 billion of barley used as feed and for malt beverage production, and a record $500 million of forage products.  
 
In recent weeks, China updated its lists of U.S. facilities eligible to export beef, pork, poultry, seafood, dairy, and infant formula products to China. China’s lists now include 499 beef, 457 pork, 470 poultry, 397 seafood, and 253 dairy and 9 infant formula facilities. As a result of these actions, more U.S. facilities are eligible to export U.S. food and agricultural products to China than ever before.  USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service continues to update its export library, which provides additional guidance for U.S. meat and poultry meat exporters, including information related to the scope of products that may be exported to China, China’s labeling requirements, and other guidance.
 
China published on May 15 a new domestic standard for dairy permeate powder for human consumption that will allow imports of this product from the United States in the future.  In 2019, China imported nearly $12 billion of dairy products from around the world. 
 
China continues to implement its tariff exclusion process in an attempt to facilitate imports of U.S. commodities.  USDA continues to publish guidance for U.S. exporters seeking to participate in this process (USDA Global Agricultural Information Network).  USTR is continuing to process and where appropriate grant exclusions of products from China. USDA also is implementing its obligations under the agreement.
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue said, “China is a market of tremendous potential for U.S. agriculture and these actions will help U.S. exporters expand their sales there.  We look forward to continued cooperative work with China on implementation of Phase One commitments, and immediate increases in U.S. exports of all manner of agricultural products.”
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said, “China has worked with the United States to implement measures that will provide greater access for U.S. producers and exporters to China’s growing food and agricultural markets. Under President Trump’s leadership, we fully expect this agreement to be a success.”


USTR Statement in Response to Decision Disallowing Action to Protect Domestic Solar Industry
05/27/2020
Washington, DC - Two years ago, President Trump took action to protect our solar industry by placing “safeguard” restrictions on imports of solar panels from China and other foreign producers that had been found by the International Trade Commission to harm domestic producers.  Although USTR initially allowed an exception for bifacial solar panels, USTR took action to eliminate the bifacial exception after finding that it had caused a significant increase in imported panels.  The ITC issued a report that also found that the exclusion had caused a spike in imports, thereby undermining the objective of the action, and potentially costing the United States many jobs.  Today, Judge Katzmann of the Court of International Trade blocked USTR from closing the bifacial panel exception.  USTR strongly disagrees with Judge Katzmann’s analysis.  The solar industry and the jobs it represents are important to this country, and USTR will take all necessary and appropriate steps to ensure that its safeguard relief is effective. 


USTR Initiates Section 301 Investigations of Digital Services Taxes
06/02/2020
Washington, DC - The United States Trade Representative announced today that his office is beginning investigations into digital services taxes that have been adopted or are being considered by a number of our trading partners. The investigations will be conducted under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act. This provision gives the USTR broad authority to investigate and respond to a foreign country's action which may be unfair or discriminatory and negatively affect U.S. Commerce. A Federal Register notice is being issued today providing details of the investigations as well as information on how members of the public can provide their views through written submissions.
"President Trump is concerned that many of our trading partners are adopting tax schemes designed to unfairly target our companies," said USTR Robert Lighthizer. "We are prepared to take all appropriate action to defend our businesses and workers against any such discrimination."


Opening Statement of Ambassador Lighthizer to the House Ways and Means Committee
06/17/2020
Washington, DC –  United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer appeared today before the House Ways and Means Committee to discuss the President’s 2020 Trade Policy Agenda.  Ambassador Lighthizer’s opening remarks follow:
We’ve been going through two crises.  These are indeed challenging times.  I thought of many of you often during these crises.  I’m confident that if we work together in good faith, as we have in the past, we will get through these problems, heal and move forward.  Hopefully, things will be even better than they were before.  In some ways these problems make talking about international trade seem less important.  But in other ways perhaps rebuilding our economy, helping to create good paying jobs for all Americans, securing fairness for our businesses and bringing back manufacturing can be part of the solution to bringing us all together as one great country again.  
We have been isolated and quarantined so long that I fear we might forget the great achievement of the last few months.  Together Republicans and Democrats, House and Senate, worked closely with the Administration to write and pass the biggest – and I would say best – trade agreement in American history, USMCA.  We should not forget how important that was for our country and for our workers and businesses and ranchers and farmers.  I’d like to again thank all of you for working with me on that.  Together we had an historic accomplishment.
I would also like to thank you for your support and help as we worked our way through the China Phase One Agreement -- the Congress had an important role in that – a very important US-Japan Agreement, and numerous smaller trade achievements during the last year.  Together I think we have helped our workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.  
Going forward there is much to achieve.  As we all know, we have active negotiations ongoing with the United Kingdom.  We will very soon commence negotiations with Kenya.  Finally, we have active engagements on trade with numerous other countries and, of course, I look forward to working with Members on the crucial issue of the WTO.  
Thank you to all Members for working so closely with me, for making time to talk to me and to meet with me, for having your staffs work so closely with USTR, and for making our end product consistently better than it would have been without your involvement.


Ambassador Lighthizer Celebrates USMCA’s Entry Into Force Today Landmark trade agreement fulfills core Trump promise to end job-killing NAFTA
07/01/2020
Washington, DC – The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) enters into force today, replacing the job-killing NAFTA failure and fulfilling a core promise President Trump made to the American people.
The USMCA, which President Trump successfully negotiated in 2018, rebalances trade between the three countries and will lead to significant economic and job growth in the United States.
At President Trump’s direction, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer worked closely with Congress to win overwhelming bipartisan approval of the USMCA.
Ambassador Lighthizer issued the following statement about USMCA’s entry into force:
“Today marks the beginning of a new and better chapter for trade between the United States, Mexico and Canada – just as President Trump promised he would deliver for the American people. 
“From day one of his Administration, President Trump has changed the focus of America’s trade policy away from what is best for big, multi-national corporations to instead what is best for America’s workers, farmers and ranchers.  That’s a monumental change.  His success in creating a bipartisan consensus on this new model for trade policy -- in spite of the establishment critics who said it couldn’t be done -- is truly remarkable.
“The USMCA contains significant improvements and modernized approaches that will deliver more jobs, stronger worker protections, expanded market access, and greater opportunities to trade for companies large and small.  We have worked closely with the governments of Mexico and Canada to ensure that the obligations and responsibilities of all three nations under the agreement have been met, and we will continue to do so to ensure the USMCA is enforced.
“The recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic demonstrates that now, more than ever, the United States must stop the outsourcing of jobs and increase our manufacturing capacity and investment here at home.  With the USMCA’s entry into force, we take another giant step forward in reaching this goal and advancing President Trump’s vision for pro-worker trade policies.”


U.S. Names Panelists for USMCA Labor Enforcement
07/01/2020
Washington, DC –  The United States today named panelists for the Rapid Response Labor Mechanism, a key tool for the enforcement of the United-States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) labor protections.  The U.S. national panelists are Janice Bellace, Lance Compa, Peter Hurtgen, Ira Jaffe, Kevin Kolben, and Ed Potter.
“The U.S. Department of Labor is pleased that some of the best and brightest in the labor field have been appointed to this vital enforcement panel of the USMCA,” said Secretary of Labor Eugene Scalia.
“The USMCA has the strongest labor enforcement provisions ever written into any U.S. trade agreement and will help to level the playing field for American workers,” said United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.
The Rapid Response Labor Mechanism, a bilateral annex of the USMCA between the United States and Mexico, is the first of its kind and allows the United States to take expedited enforcement actions against individual factories in Mexico that fail to comply with domestic freedom of association and collective bargaining laws.
The U.S. panelists:
Janice Bellace is the Samuel A. Blank Professor Emeritus of Legal Studies & Business Ethics at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.  Ms. Bellace’s research is in the area of labor and employment law and employment relations, with a focus on how international human rights concepts shape regulation and corporate behavior.
Lance Compa is a former Senior Lecturer at Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations, where he focused on U.S. labor law and international labor rights.  Mr. Compa has extensive experience in labor cases with Mexico and in international labor standards.
Peter Hurtgen is a partner working in labor and employment law at Curley, Hurtgen & Johnsrud LLP.  He has served as the Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.  
Ira Jaffe has served as a full-time arbitrator and mediator primarily hearing labor and employment and benefits disputes. He serves on over 60 permanent arbitration panels in the private and public sectors and was appointed by both President Bush and President Obama to serve on or chair four Presidential Emergency Boards addressing emergency disputes arising under the Railway Labor Act.
Kevin Kolben is an Associate Professor at the Rutgers Business School and an expert on transnational labor regulation and labor governance in supply chains.  Mr. Kolben has written extensively on labor in the international context.
Edward Potter is an International Advisory Council Member at the Institute for Human Rights and Business.  For over two decades, he participated on the ILO Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations that holds countries accountable for their obligations resulting from the ratification of ILO conventions.
 
The United States, in consultation with Mexico, has agreed on six non-national panelists: Gary Cwitco, Cleopatra Elmira Doumbia-Henry, Pablo Lazo Grandi, Salvador Del Rey Guanter, Paul van der Heijden, and Adolfo Alberto Ciudad Reynaud.


Joint Statement Between the United States and Kenya on the Launch of Negotiations Towards a Free Trade Agreement
07/08/2020
Today, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Kenya Cabinet Secretary for Industrialization, Trade, and Enterprise Development Betty Maina formally launched trade agreement negotiations between the United States and the Republic of Kenya.
“Kenya is a recognized leader across the continent, an important strategic partner of the United States, and there is enormous potential for us to deepen our economic and commercial ties,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Under President Trump’s leadership, we look forward to negotiating and concluding a comprehensive, high-standard agreement with Kenya that can serve as a model for additional agreements across Africa. 
“We believe this agreement with Kenya will complement Africa’s regional integration efforts, including in the East African Community and the landmark African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), and the United States pledges its continued support to help the AfCFTA achieve its fullest potential.”
Cabinet Secretary Maina said, “Kenya and the United States have strong trade relations demonstrated by growing exports and imports which have increased over the years.  The United States of America is a significant destination market for Kenya, a position that has been sustained over the years after the East Africa Community (EAC), European Union (EU) and Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA). 
 
“Increasing and sustaining export performance to the United States requires a trade arrangement that is predictable and guarantees preferential market access for Kenyan products. Kenya is also keen to attract Foreign Direct Investment from the United States that will improve vertical and horizontal linkages in the Kenyan economy. The increased inflow of investment from the United States has the potential to create job opportunities and catalyze other value chains that will benefit Micro and Small Enterprises in Kenya.”
In light of the ongoing global pandemic caused by COVID-19, the first round of negotiations is being conducted virtually, with the U.S. and Kenyan negotiators engaging in discussions over the next two weeks in multiple negotiating sessions covering all aspects of a comprehensive trade agreement.
The United States and Kenya share a deep and enduring relationship that encompasses longstanding social, cultural, economic, and political ties.  Both countries have worked closely together to strengthen agriculture, protect wildlife, improve health and welfare, assist in civic education, and combat the scourge of terrorism.  
In 2018, President Donald Trump and President Uhuru Kenyatta elevated the U.S.-Kenya bilateral relationship to a strategic partnership, and established a Trade and Investment Working Group to explore ways to deepen the trade and investment ties between the two countries and lay the groundwork for a stronger future trade relationship.  In 2020, the two presidents agreed to pursue closer economic ties through the negotiation of a free trade agreement.
The United States and Kenya seek to conclude a free trade agreement that will complement regional integration efforts within the East African Community (EAC), as well as the landmark African Continental Free Trade Area. 
The two countries recognize that an agreement between them has the potential to serve as a model for additional agreements across Africa, including with other EAC partner states. 
In addition to the launch of trade negotiations, the United States and Kenya agreed on a Strategic Cooperation Framework to provide technical assistance and trade capacity building in Kenya with the aim of maximizing Kenya’s utilization of the African Growth and Opportunity Act trade benefits for the remaining years of the preference program, which is scheduled to expire in 2025.  The Framework will also support the development and competitiveness of key agricultural value chains in Kenya.
The United States and Kenya intend to intensify efforts to bolster commercial cooperation under the bilateral commercial Memorandum of Understanding signed in June 2018, and to work together to identify and prioritize trade and investment opportunities in strategic sectors including energy, health, digital economy, infrastructure, manufacturing, and agriculture.
Both governments are committed to a successful outcome that makes workers, farmers, and business people in both countries more prosperous.  


U.S., Japan Expand Organic Trade Opportunities Livestock Added to Trade Arrangement
07/14/2020
Washington, DC —The United States and Japan announced the expansion of their organic equivalence arrangement to include livestock products. The arrangement goes into effect July 16, 2020 and reduces costs and streamlines the process for anyone involved in the organic livestock supply chain by requiring only one organic certification.
“Opening new markets for America’s organic farmers and ranchers continues to be a priority for USDA,” said the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Marketing and Regulatory Programs Under Secretary Greg Ibach. “Japan is already one of the top export markets for U.S. organic products. This agreement opens additional opportunities for everyone involved in the international supply chain for livestock, from farm to table.”
“Japan is a key international partner in the organic market sector,” said U.S. Trade Representative Chief Agricultural Negotiator Gregg Doud.  “This expanded arrangement protects and increases access for American organic farmers, ranchers, and businesses to the third largest U.S. organic export market”.
The Japan Agricultural Standards (JAS) now require organic livestock products imported from the United States to either be certified under the JAS or USDA organic regulations. Today’s announcement marks the addition of livestock to the existing U.S.-Japan organic trade arrangement that has allowed plant-based products to be certified to either country’s organic standards since 2014.
USDA has established equivalence arrangements with major organic export markets including Canada, the European Union, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland and Taiwan. These arrangements eliminate the need for dual certifications, avoiding double fees, inspections and duplicative paperwork.
Leading up to today's announcement, technical experts from the United States and Japan conducted thorough on-site audits to ensure that the regulations, quality control measures, certification requirements and labeling practices are compatible. The trade partners will continue to hold regular discussions and review each other's programs periodically, ensuring the terms of the arrangement are being met.
Additional details on this and other organic trade arrangements, are available on the USDA National Organic Program website at https://www.ams.usda.gov/organic.


USDA, USTR Name New Agricultural Trade Advisors
07/17/2020
Washington, DC – U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today announced the appointment of 25 new members to serve on seven agricultural trade advisory committees.
The Agricultural Policy Advisory Committee is comprised of senior representatives from across the U.S. agricultural community who provide advice to the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative on trade policy matters including the operation of existing trade agreements and the negotiation of new agreements. Members of the six Agricultural Technical Advisory Committees (ATACs) provide technical advice and guidance from the perspective of their specific product sectors.
The newly appointed advisors will serve until 2024.  Each committee will be supplemented by additional appointments over the next four years. Applications are encouraged at any time.  A complete list of committee members and application information is available at www.fas.usda.gov/topics/trade-advisory-committees. 
Following is a list of the new advisors, by committee:
Agricultural Policy Advisory Committee
Constance Cullman, American Feed Industry Association
David Puglia, Western Growers
David Salmonsen, American Farm Bureau Federation
ATAC for Trade in Animals and Animal Products
Robert DeHaan, National Fisheries Institute
Mallory Gaines, American Feed Industry Association
David Herring, Hog Slat Inc./TDM Farms
James Parnell, Alabama Farmers Federation
Maria Zieba, National Pork Producers Council
ATAC for Trade in Fruits and Vegetables
William Callis, U.S. Apple Export Council
Casey Creamer, California Citrus Mutual
Jodi Devaurs, California Table Grape Commission                    
Jonathan Maberry, Washington Red Raspberry Commission
Caroline Stringer, California Fresh Fruit Association
ATAC for Trade in Grains, Feed, Oilseeds and Planting Seeds
Peter Bachmann, USA Rice Federation
William Gordon, American Soybean Association
Derek Haigwood, D.I.D. Farms
Patrick Hayden, North American Export Grain Association
Dalton Henry, U.S. Wheat Associates
Edward Hubbard, Renewable Fuels Association
Tina Lyons, Double River Forwarding, LLC
ATAC for Trade in Processed Foods
Kevin Latner, National Industrial Hemp Council
Richard (Denton) McLane, McLane Global Trading
Max Moncaster, National Association of State Departments of Agriculture
Bernadette Wiltz, Southern United States Trade Association
ATAC for Trade in Sweeteners and Sweetener Products
(No new members.)
ATAC for Trade in Tobacco, Cotton and Peanuts
Karl Zimmer, Premium Peanut


Federal Agencies to Hold Virtual Hearings on Seasonal and Perishable Produce
07/17/2020
Washington, DC -- The Office of the United States Trade Representative, the United States Department of Agriculture, and the United States Department of Commerce will convene virtual hearings next month to discuss foreign trade policies that may be harming American growers of seasonal and perishable produce.  At the hearings, officials from the federal agencies will hear from interested persons on how the Trump Administration can support these producers and redress any unfair harm.  The hearings, which were originally scheduled to take place in Florida and Georgia in April, will take place virtually in light of the ongoing pandemic caused by Covid-19.  USTR will continue to evaluate additional opportunities to engage directly with stakeholders in Florida, Georgia, and elsewhere on this important issue.
The virtual hearings are scheduled for the following dates:
(1)    August 13, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. EDT
(2)    August 20, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. EDT
The Federal Register notice with instructions on how to submit requests to participate in the hearings and written materials can be viewed here.
NOTE: The hearings will be made public and viewable online, and further details about viewing the hearings will be provided ahead of the hearing dates.  Full transcripts of the hearings will also be posted online after the hearings. 


Ambassador Lighthizer Comments on the Passing of Congressman John Lewis
07/18/2020
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement today on the death of Congressman John Lewis:
"The world has lost a great statesman and leader, and I have lost someone I consider to be a friend and hero. So many important people work in Washington and pass through Congress, but John Lewis was truly a historic figure who will never be forgotten. Congressman Lewis devoted his life to righting past wrongs. One of the proudest moments of my career was when I watched from the House gallery as Congressman Lewis —a fierce critic of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) –spoke in favor of its replacement, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and called it ‘a new foundation for trade policy’ that ‘reflects our values as a people and as a nation.’ He worked tirelessly all his life – and at great personal sacrifice – to make America a better place and a more perfect union, and he will be tremendously missed."


USTR Announces Fiscal Year 2021 WTO Tariff-Rate Quota Allocations for Raw Cane Sugar, Refined and Specialty Sugar, and Sugar-Containing Products
07/22/2020
Washington, D.C. – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced the country-specific and first-come, first-served in-quota allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported raw cane sugar, refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for Fiscal Year (FY) 2021 (October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021).  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product to the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On July 9, 2020, the Secretary of Agriculture announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity for raw cane sugar for FY 2021.  The in-quota quantity for the TRQ on raw cane sugar for FY 2021 is 1,117,195 metric tons raw value (MTRV)*, which is the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement.  USTR is allocating the raw cane sugar TRQ of 1,117,195 MTRV to the following countries in the quantities specified below:                 
Country	FY 2021 Raw Cane Sugar allocations (MTRV)
Argentina	45,281
Australia	87,402
Barbados	7,371
Belize	11,584
Bolivia	8,424
Brazil	152,691
Colombia	25,273
Congo (Brazzaville)	7,258
Costa Rica	15,796
Cote d’Ivoire	7,258
Dominican Republic 	185,335
Ecuador	11,584
El Salvador	27,379
Fiji	9,477
Gabon	7,258
Guatemala	50,546
Guyana	12,636
Haiti	7,258
Honduras	10,530
India	8,424
Jamaica	11,584
Madagascar	7,258
Malawi	10,530
Mauritius	12,636
Mexico	7,258
Mozambique	13,690
Nicaragua	22,114
Panama	30,538
Papua New Guinea	7,258
Paraguay	7,258
Peru	43,175
Philippines	142,160
South Africa	24,220
St. Kitts & Nevis	7,258
Swaziland	16,849
Taiwan	12,636
Thailand	14,743
Trinidad & Tobago	7,371
Uruguay	7,258
Zimbabwe	12,636
These allocations are based on each country’s historical shipments to the United States.  The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country to which an allocation is provided.
On July 9, 2020, the Secretary also announced the establishment of the in-quota quantity of the FY 2021 refined sugar TRQ at 162,000 MTRV for which the sucrose content, by weight in the dry state, must have a polarimeter reading of 99.5 degrees or more.  This amount includes the minimum level to which the United States is committed under the WTO Uruguay Round Agreement - 22,000 MTRV of which 1,656 MTRV is reserved for specialty sugar - and an additional 140,000 MTRV for specialty sugars.  USTR is allocating the refined sugar TRQ as follows: 10,300 MTRV of refined sugar to Canada, 2,954 MTRV to Mexico, and 7,090 MTRV to be administered on a first-come, first-served basis.
Imports of all specialty sugar will be administered on a first-come, first-served basis in five tranches.  The Secretary announced that the total in-quota quantity of specialty sugar will be the 1,656 MTRV included in the WTO minimum plus an additional 140,000 MTRV.The first tranche of 1,656 MTRV will open October 1, 2020.  All types of specialty sugars are eligible for entry under this tranche.  The second tranche of 40,000 MTRV will open on October 8, 2020.  The third tranche of 40,000 MTRV will open on January 21, 2021.  The fourth tranche of 30,000 MTRV will open on April 15, 2021.  The fifth tranche of 30,000 MTRV will open on July 15, 2021.  The second, third, fourth and fifth tranches will be reserved for organic sugar and other specialty sugars not currently produced commercially in the United States or reasonably available from domestic sources. 
With respect to the in-quota quantity of 64,709 metric tons (MT) of the TRQ for imports of certain sugar-containing products maintained under Additional U.S. Note 8 to chapter 17 of the HTS, USTR is allocating 59,250 MT to Canada.  The remainder, 5,459 MT of the in-quota quantity is available for other countries on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Raw cane sugar, refined and specialty sugar and sugar-containing products for FY 2021 TRQs may enter the United States as of October 1, 2020. 
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton raw value = 1.10231125 short tons raw value.
To read the Federal Register notice, click here.



Statement on Presidential Proclamation
08/06/2020
Washington, DC –  The President exempted Canada from the tariffs he imposed under Section 232 on the basis of an agreement that imports of steel and aluminum products from Canada would remain at historical levels.  Since the President exempted Canada, imports from Canada of the product that accounts for the largest share of Canada's aluminum exports to the United States have surged above historical levels.  The surge has intensified in recent months, despite a contraction in U.S. demand.  To ensure the continued integrity and effectiveness of the national security measures the President adopted under Section 232, the United States has re-imposed a tariff on the surging imports, as provided for in our agreement with Canada.
Background
On May 17, 2019, the United States announced an agreement with Canada to remove Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from Canada and for the removal of all retaliatory tariffs imposed on American goods by Canada.  The agreement provides for aggressive monitoring and a mechanism to prevent surges in imports of steel and aluminum.  The list of products covered by this mechanism is set forth in the agreement.  Under the agreement, if surges in imports of any of the specified steel and aluminum products occur, the United States may re-impose Section 232 tariffs on those products
Following removal of the Section 232 tariffs on imports from Canada in May of last year, imports of non-alloyed unwrought aluminum have increased substantially to a level above historical volumes of trade over a prolonged period, including a period during which U.S. aluminum consumption has decreased significantly.  In light of this surge, and in keeping with the terms of the agreement concluded with Canada, the United States today re-imposed the Section 232 10% ad valorem additional duty on imports of non-alloyed unwrought aluminum from Canada.


Federal Agencies to Hold Virtual Hearings on Seasonal and Perishable Produce
08/11/2020
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross will deliver opening remarks on Thursday, August 13, 2020, at the first of two virtual hearings to discuss foreign trade practices that may be harming American growers of seasonal and perishable produce.  Additional representatives from USTR, USDA, and DOC will be present and will hear from interested persons on how the Trump Administration can support these producers and redress any unfair harm.  A second virtual hearing on this matter is scheduled for Thursday, August 20, 2020.
Background:
USTR, USDA, and DOC announced last month that they will convene two virtual hearings at which officials from the federal agencies will hear from interested persons on how the Trump Administration can support these producers and redress any unfair harm.  The hearings, which were originally scheduled to take place in Florida and Georgia in April, will take place virtually in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.  
The virtual hearings are scheduled for the following dates:
(1)    August 13, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. EDT
(2)    August 20, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. EDT
To view the live recording of the hearing, visit USTR’s website here. The livestream will be made available on August 13.
Click here to view the hearing schedule and list of participants on August 13.  Additional information regarding the August 20 hearing will be made available closer to that date.
The Federal Register notice regarding the hearings can be viewed here.
NOTE:  Full transcripts of the hearings will be posted online after the hearings.


USTR Modifies $7.5 Billion WTO Award Implementation Relating to Illegal Airbus Subsidies
08/12/2020
Washington, DC – Today, as required by U.S. law, the United States Trade Representative is issuing a modification to the list of products subject to WTO-authorized additional duties in the United States’ successful WTO challenge to subsidies for large civil aircraft provided by the European Union, France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom.   USTR is removing from the tariff list certain products from Greece and the United Kingdom and adding an equivalent amount of trade from France and Germany.  The changes are modest; the amount of products subject to countermeasures will remain unchanged at $7.5 billion and the tariff rates will remain unchanged at 15% for aircraft and 25% for all other products.
“The EU and member states have not taken the actions necessary to come into compliance with WTO decisions,” Ambassador Robert Lighthizer stated.  “The United States, however, is committed to obtaining a long-term resolution to this dispute.  Accordingly, the United States will begin a new process with the EU in an effort to reach an agreement that will remedy the conduct that harmed the U.S. aviation industry and workers and will ensure a level playing field for U.S. companies. ”  
The modifications announced today will take effect on Sept. 1, 2020.
BACKGROUND
In October 2019, the WTO authorized the United States to take $7.5 billion in countermeasures following the largest victory in WTO history in the long-running dispute against the EU, France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom regarding their illegal subsidies for the Airbus consortium.  Following a notice and comment process, on October 9, 2019, the United States imposed additional tariffs of up to 25 percent on products of current and former EU member states with a trade value of approximately $7.5 billion.  The section 301 statute provides for periodic review and modification of the tariff action.  A prior revision was made in February 2020.  
The details of the modification are set out in a Notice that will be published in the Federal Register.   


Federal Agencies to Hold Second Virtual Hearing on Seasonal and Perishable Produce
08/18/2020
Washington, DC -- The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the U.S. Department of Commerce will hold the second of two virtual hearings on Thursday, August 20 to discuss foreign trade practices that may be harming American growers of seasonal and perishable produce.  U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue will deliver opening remarks, and officials from each agency will hear from interested persons on how the Trump Administration can support these producers and redress any unfair harm.  The first virtual hearing was held on August 13. 
Background:
USTR, USDA, and DOC announced last month that they will convene two virtual hearings at which officials from the federal agencies will hear from interested persons on how the Trump Administration can support these producers and redress any unfair harm.  The hearings, which were originally scheduled to take place in Florida and Georgia in April, will take place virtually in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.  
The second virtual hearing is scheduled for August 20, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. EDT.
The hearing is open to the public, and a link to watch the hearing will be available on USTR’s website here on August 20.
Click here to view the hearing schedule and list of participants on August 20.
The Federal Register notice regarding the hearings can be viewed here.
NOTE:  Full transcripts of the hearings will be posted online after the hearings. 


Joint Statement of the United States and the European Union on a Tariff Agreement
08/21/2020
United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and European Union Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan today announced agreement on a package of tariff reductions that will increase market access for hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. and EU exports.  These tariff reductions are the first U.S.-EU negotiated reductions in duties in more than two decades.
Under the agreement, the EU will eliminate tariffs on imports of U.S. live and frozen lobster products.  U.S. exports of these products to the EU were over $111 million in 2017.  The EU will eliminate these tariffs on a Most Favored Nation (MFN) basis, retroactive to begin August 1, 2020.  The EU tariffs will be eliminated for a period of five years and the European Commission will promptly initiate procedures aimed at making the tariff changes permanent.  The United States will reduce by 50% its tariff rates on certain products exported by the EU worth an average annual trade value of $160 million, including certain prepared meals, certain crystal glassware, surface preparations, propellant powders, cigarette lighters and lighter parts.  The U.S. tariff reductions will also be made on an MFN basis and retroactive to begin August 1, 2020.
“As part of improving EU-US relations, this mutually beneficial agreement will bring positive results to the economies of both the United States and the European Union.  We intend for this package of tariff reductions to mark just the beginning of a process that will lead to additional agreements that create more free, fair, and reciprocal transatlantic trade,” said Ambassador Lighthizer and Commissioner Hogan.  
Timeline on Negotiations:
In 2019, at the direction of President Donald J. Trump, the United States completed formal procedures necessary to launch negotiations on a trade agreement, as did the European Commission. 
In September 2018, as required by the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, Ambassador Lighthizer consulted with members of Congress on the Trump Administration’s interest in launching trade negotiations with the EU.  On October 16, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative officially notified Congress that President Trump intended to launch trade negotiations with the EU.  On January 11, 2019, following consultations with Congress and public comment period from U.S. stakeholders, the Trump Administration issued formal U.S. negotiating objectives for the EU.
The agreement being announced today arose out of continuing engagement with the EU on these issues.


United States Rejects WTO Dispute Report Shielding Canada’s Harmful Lumber Subsidies
08/24/2020
Washington, DC – Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today criticized a World Trade Organization (WTO) panel report that applies an erroneous Appellate Body interpretation and would shield Canada’s massive lumber subsidies from U.S. action imposing countervailing duties to support the U.S. softwood lumber industry and its workers.  
“This flawed report confirms what the United States has been saying for years: the WTO dispute settlement system is being used to shield non-market practices and harm U.S. interests,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “The panel’s findings would prevent the United States from taking legitimate action in response to Canada’s pervasive subsidies for its softwood lumber industry.” 
Contrary to WTO rules, the panel did not defer to the reasoned judgment of the investigating authority, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and it applied a fundamentally flawed Appellate Body interpretation so that the panel failed to acknowledge the impact of the Canadian government’s subsidies advantaging the Canadian the lumber industry.  
Background: 
The United States has expressed concerns about unfairly dumped and subsidized imports of softwood lumber products from Canada for nearly 40 years, and there is a long history of litigation over the issue at the WTO and in domestic courts.  In 2017, the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) found, for the third time in three decades, that the Canadian federal and provincial governments are subsidizing Canadian softwood lumber producers, which are selling softwood lumber in the U.S. market and causing material injury to U.S. softwood lumber producers.  
The softwood lumber industry is a vital part of the U.S. economy.  There are thousands of sawmills throughout the United States, the majority of which are small, local mills.  In 2016, the last full year of data analyzed during the investigation, the U.S. softwood lumber industry employed more than 18,000 workers in more than 30 states and shipped approximately $7.12 billion of softwood lumber products.  Imports of softwood lumber products from Canada in 2016 totaled $5.78 billion.  
The United States is evaluating options in response to the panel report.


Statement on Call Between the United States and China
08/24/2020
Washington, DC – Ambassador Lighthizer and Secretary Mnuchin participated in a regularly scheduled call this evening with China’s Vice Premier Liu He to discuss implementation of the historic Phase One Agreement between the United States and China.  The parties addressed steps that China has taken to effectuate structural changes called for by the Agreement that will ensure greater protection for intellectual property rights, remove impediments to American companies in the areas of financial services and agriculture, and eliminate forced technology transfer.  The parties also discussed the significant increases in purchases of U.S. products by China as well as future actions needed to implement the agreement.  Both sides see progress and are committed to taking the steps necessary to ensure the success of the agreement.


President Trump Continues to Protect America’s Steel-Dependent National Security
08/31/2020
Washington, DC – Since the beginning of his Administration, President Donald J. Trump has fought to protect American workers and the American steel industry. Today, the United States announces additional measures to address steel imports with two key trading partners – Mexico and Brazil.  Under President Trump’s leadership, the United States continues to engage cooperatively with trading partners while acting responsibly to protect industries vital to our national security.
USTR Statements on Successful Conclusion of Steel Negotiations
Mexico and the United States have successfully concluded consultations held pursuant to the mechanism established in their Joint Statement of May 17, 2019 to address recent surges in imports from Mexico of three steel products: standard pipe, mechanical tubing, and semi-finished products.  Mexico will establish a strict export monitoring regime for these products through June 1, 2021 and closely monitor shipments during this period.  The United States will maintain the Section 232 duty exemption for imports of these products and will consult with Mexico in December of 2020 to discuss the state of trade in the relevant products in light of market conditions at that time.   
 
The United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, praised the Mexican government and his counterpart, Secretary of Economy Graciela Márquez Colín, for their cooperation and constructive engagement:  “While the COVID-19 pandemic has challenged both of our countries in unprecedented ways, it has also underscored the importance of the strong economic partnership between the United States and Mexico and the need for close coordination to address common challenges.  Our successful consultations on steel prove it is possible for us to work together to find creative solutions that serve the interests of workers and businesses in both countries.  I thank my friend Secretary Márquez and her staff for their engagement and hard work over the last few weeks as we worked through this issue.”
***
Brazil and the United States have held successful talks regarding the steel trade between the two countries.  In May of 2018, President Trump granted an exemption for Brazilian steel products from tariffs he imposed under Section 232, which allowed for duty-free importation of set quotas of various Brazilian steel products. The exemption was maintained in 2019 as the result of a constructive dialogue between Presidents Bolsonaro and Trump.  In light of recent deterioration in market conditions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic affecting domestic steel producers, the United States has deemed it necessary to reduce the remaining quota for Brazilian semi-finished steel products for the remainder of 2020 to 60,000 metric tons, down from 350,000, but will maintain existing quotas for other steel products.  The United States will hold consultations with Brazil about the semi-finished steel quota for 2021 in December, by which time we hope market conditions will have improved. 
The United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, thanked the Brazilian government for the constructive dialogue in this matter:  “Despite the challenges both of our countries face from COVID-19, discussions between the United States and Brazil on strengthening our trade relationship for the future are proceeding nicely.  I thank Minister Ernesto Araújo for his willingness to discuss the state of the steel trade between our countries over the past few weeks.  Our successful talks on this matter prove the value of candid, good faith engagement between trade partners.”


Federal Agencies Outline Plan to Help Farmers of Seasonal and Perishable Fruits and Vegetables
09/01/2020
Washington, DC -- The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Commerce today released a report outlining the Trump Administration’s plan to address the threat posed by increased foreign imports to American producers of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables.
The plan follows public hearings held in August where more than 60 witnesses testified, in addition to over 300 written submissions.
“President Trump recognizes the challenges faced by American farmers and is committed to promoting and securing fair trade and a level playing field for all American producers.  Secretary Perdue, Secretary Ross, and I are fully engaged in this effort.  We would like to thank all of the elected officials, agricultural leaders, and dozens of farmers who participated in these hearings and helped make this plan a priority,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.
Based on information collected from these hearings, the agencies commit to the following actions to support America’s seasonal and perishable fruit and vegetable producers:
Plan to Support American Producers of Seasonal and Perishable Fruits and Vegetables
1.    USTR will request the International Trade Commission to initiate a Section 201 global safeguard investigation into the extent to which increased imports of blueberries have caused serious injury to domestic blueberry growers.
2.    USTR will pursue senior-level government-to-government discussions with Mexico over the next 90 days to address U.S. industry concerns regarding U.S. imports of Mexican strawberries, bell peppers, and other seasonal and perishable products.
3.    USTR will work with domestic producers to commence an investigation by the International Trade Commission to monitor and investigate imports of strawberries and bell peppers, which could enable an expedited Section 201 global safeguard investigation later this year.
4.    The Department of Commerce will 
(a)    establish an outreach program to connect with Southeastern and other growers of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables, to enhance understanding of applicable trade remedy laws and processes; and
(b)    establish a formal channel for stakeholders to provide information related to unfair subsidies for foreign producers and exporters of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables, including those in Mexico – building on ongoing efforts to partner with U.S. industry to identify such subsidies.
5.     The Department of Agriculture will
(a)     increase targeted outreach to producers of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables to maximize the use of existing Department of Agriculture programs; and
(b)    develop a market promotion strategy for domestically produced produce; and
(c)    initiate conversations with relevant federal partners to better understand the extent to which imports of seasonal and perishable products are utilized to enable criminal activity. 
6.    USTR, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Agriculture will establish an interagency working group to monitor seasonal and perishable fruit and vegetable products, coordinate as appropriate regarding future investigations and trade actions, and provide technical assistance to Members of Congress in developing legislation on this issue.
This plan does not foreclose additional actions and investigations by the Trump Administration to support producers of seasonal and perishable fruits and vegetables. The Administration is dedicated to supporting America’s hardworking farmers across the country and recognizes the importance of preserving and enhancing a diverse and homegrown food supply.
To read the plan, click here.
Click here to read the full transcript of the virtual hearing held on August 13, 2020.
Click here to read the full transcript of the virtual hearing held on August 20, 2020.
To view all submitted comments to the public docket, click here.


Joint Statement on U.S.-Brazil Trade in Ethanol
09/11/2020
Washington, DC – Brazil and the United States have held consultations regarding their bilateral trade on ethanol. As a result, they have decided to conduct results-oriented discussions on an arrangement to improve market access for ethanol and sugar in Brazil and the United States. They will also consider an increase in market access for corn in both countries. The two countries will also discuss ways to ensure there is fair market access along with any increase in the consumption of ethanol, as well as to coordinate and ensure that the ethanol industries in both countries will be treated fairly and benefit from future regulatory changes on biofuel products in Brazil and the United States. The discussions should aim to achieve reciprocal and proportional outcomes that generate trade and open markets to the benefit of both countries.
Such discussions will take place over a 90-day period starting on September 14, 2020. During such time, Brazil will maintain a pro-rata tariff-rate quota (TRQ) for ethanol proportional to the total annual volume of the TRQ that was in force on August 30, 2020.
Brazil and the United States agreed to proceed in this manner in the spirit of the economic partnership created under the leadership of Presidents Trump and Bolsonaro, acknowledging the need to continue to constructively address the effects of the crises generated by the COVID-19 pandemic on their bilateral trade and domestic production.


WTO Report on US Action Against China Shows Necessity for Reform
09/15/2020
Washington, DC – U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer today criticized a World Trade Organization (WTO) panel report that stated that actions taken by the U.S. to combat China’s widespread and damaging theft of American technology and intellectual property were inconsistent with WTO rules.  
“This panel report confirms what the Trump Administration has been saying for four years:  The WTO is completely inadequate to stop China’s harmful technology practices,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Although the panel did not dispute the extensive evidence submitted by the United States of intellectual property theft by China, its decision shows that the WTO provides no remedy for such misconduct.  The United States must be allowed to defend itself against unfair trade practices, and the Trump Administration will not let China use the WTO to take advantage of American workers, businesses, farmers, and ranchers.  It is important to note that this report has no effect on the historic Phase One Agreement between the United States and China, which includes new, enforceable commitments by China to prevent the theft of American technology.” 
USTR issued a Section 301 report in 2018 documenting how China had engaged in unfair forced technology transfer practices, such as exploiting its foreign ownership and administrative requirements to extort U.S. intellectual property rights or supporting commercial cyber theft from U.S. entities.  The report cited hundreds of sources and thousands of pieces of evidence, including reports from governments, firms, business associations, think tanks and researchers, and others.  These unfair trade practices and other actions by China have cost U.S. innovators, workers, and businesses billions of dollars every year.  
The actions USTR took in response to these practices led earlier this year to the historic Economic and Trade Agreement Between the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China (the “Phase One” Agreement). 
Background:  China initiated this WTO dispute - United States-Tariff Measures on Certain Goods from China (DS543) – in April 2018, and subsequently amended its request for consultations.  In January 2019, the WTO established a panel at China’s request.  The dispute covers two of the trade actions in the Section 301 investigation of China’s Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation:  the $34 billion trade action announced in June 2018, and the $200 billion trade action announced in September 2018.  


USTR Statement on Canadian Aluminum
09/15/2020
Washington, DC –  After consultations with the Canadian government, the United States has determined that trade in non-alloyed, unwrought aluminum is likely to normalize in the last four months of 2020, with imports declining sharply from the surges experienced earlier in the year.  Average monthly imports are expected to decline 50 percent from the monthly average in the period of January through July.  Accordingly, the United States will modify the terms of the 10 percent tariff imposed in August on imports of Canadian non-alloyed unwrought aluminum. 
The United States expects that shipments of non-alloyed, unwrought aluminum from Canada for the remainder of 2020 will be no greater than the following monthly volumes:
 

September	83,000 tons

October	70,000 tons

November	83,000 tons

December	70,000 tons
Based on these expectations, the United States will resume duty-free treatment of non-alloyed, unwrought aluminum retroactive to September 1, 2020.  Six weeks after the end of any month during this period, the United States will determine whether actual shipments met expectations.  If actual shipments exceeded 105 percent of the expected volume for any month during the four-month period, then the United States will impose the 10 percent tariff retroactively on all shipments made in that month. 
If shipments in any month exceed the expected volume, the United States expects that shipments in the next month will decline by a corresponding amount. 
In addition to the forgoing, if imports exceed 105 percent of the expected volume in any month the United States may re-impose the 10 percent tariff going forward.
The United States will consult with the Canadian government at the end of the year to review the state of the aluminum trade in light of trade patterns during the four-month period and expected market conditions in 2021.


USTR Announces Fiscal Year 2020 Allocation of Additional Tariff-Rate Quota Volume for Raw Cane Sugar
09/22/2020
Washington, DC –  The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today announced country-specific in-quota additional allocations under the tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) on imported raw cane sugar for Fiscal Year 2020 (October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020).  TRQs allow countries to export specified quantities of a product into the United States at a relatively low tariff, but subject all imports of the product above a pre-determined threshold to a higher tariff.
On September 10, 2020, the Secretary of Agriculture announced an additional in-quota quantity of the TRQ for raw cane sugar for the remainder of FY 2020 (ending September 30, 2020) in the amount of 90,718 metric tons raw value (MTRV).  This quantity is in addition to the minimum amount to which the United States is committed under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Uruguay Round Agreements (1,117,195 MTRV) and in addition to the increase of 317,515 MTRV the Secretary announced on April 3, 2020.  The Secretary has also determined that all sugar entering the United States under the FY 2020 raw cane sugar TRQ will be permitted to enter U.S. Customs territory through October 31, 2020, a month later than the usual last entry date. Of this additional quantity of raw cane sugar, USTR is allocating 10,718 MTRV to Australia and 80,000 MTRV to Brazil. 
The allocations of the raw cane sugar TRQ to countries that are net importers of sugar are conditioned on receipt of the appropriate verifications of origin, and certificates for quota eligibility must accompany imports from any country for which an allocation has been provided.
*Conversion factor: 1 metric ton = 1.10231125 short tons.


USTR Requests the International Trade Commission Commence a Section 201 Global Safeguard Investigation for Blueberries
09/29/2020
Washington, DC – United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer today issued a request to the International Trade Commission (ITC) to initiate a Section 201 global safeguard investigation into the extent to which increased imports of blueberries have caused serious injury or threat thereof to domestic blueberry growers.  This is one of a number of actions announced in the Report on Seasonal and Perishable Products in U.S. Commerce jointly released by USTR, the Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Commerce earlier this month.
“President Trump recognizes the challenges faced by farmers across the country, and today’s action is just one of a number of steps the Administration is taking to support American producers of seasonal and perishable agricultural products,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.
USTR’s request includes all imports within the product descriptions under the following statistical reporting categories in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States: 
0810400029 (cultivated blueberries, including highbush, fresh or chilled);
0810400026 (certified organic blueberries, fresh or chilled);
0810400024 (wild blueberries, fresh or chilled);
0811902024 (wild blueberry, uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water, frozen);
0811902030 (blueberries, certified organic, cultivated (including highbush), uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water, frozen); and
0811902040 (blueberries, cultivated (including highbush), uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water, NESOI, frozen).
 
The ITC will publish notice of the commencement of this proceeding in the Federal Register and will hold public hearings at which the ITC will afford interested parties and consumers an opportunity to present evidence or otherwise be heard.  Further information regarding the investigation process—including applicable timelines—can be found in 19 U.S. Code § 2252.
The full Report on Seasonal and Perishable Products in U.S. Commerce is available here.


USTR Initiates Vietnam Section 301 Investigation
10/02/2020
Washington, DC – At the direction of President Donald J. Trump, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) is initiating an investigation addressing two significant issues with respect to Vietnam.  USTR will investigate Vietnam’s acts, policies, and practices related to the import and use of timber that is illegally harvested or traded, and will investigate Vietnam’s acts, policies, and practices that may contribute to the undervaluation of its currency and the resultant harm caused to U.S. commerce.  USTR will conduct the investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act.  As part of its investigation on currency undervaluation, USTR will consult with the Department of the Treasury as to issues of currency valuation and exchange rate policy.  
United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer said, “President Trump is firmly committed to combatting unfair trade practices that harm America’s workers, businesses, farmers, and ranchers.  Using illegal timber in wood products exported to the U.S. market harms the environment and is unfair to U.S. workers and businesses who follow the rules by using legally harvested timber.  In addition, unfair currency practices can harm U.S. workers and businesses that compete with Vietnamese products that may be artificially lower-priced because of currency undervaluation.  We will carefully review the results of the investigation and determine what, if any, actions it may be appropriate to take.”  
USTR will issue two separate Federal Register notices next week that will provide details of the investigation and information on how members of the public can provide their views through written submissions.


Ambassador Robert Lighthizer issues Statement on Release of August 2020 Trade Data
10/06/2020
Washington, DC – Ambassador Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement today concerning the August 2020 trade data released by the U.S. Department of Commerce:
“The trade data released today reflect the effects of the coronavirus on the U.S. and our trading partners.  Basically, many of our partners were more negatively affected by the pandemic than we were.  Indeed, the U.S. economy has outperformed every other G7 country.  In spite of the pandemic, our goods deficit is down 2.4% year-to-date.  The goods deficit would have decreased by at least 6% but for a large spike in gold imports reflecting risk-hedging strategies during the pandemic, not underlying economics.  Our services surplus is down 19%, but that is largely due to reduced tourism, travel, and transport.  As other countries recover and reopen, we expect both imports and exports to improve substantially.”
“Additionally, it is worth noting that our year-to-date goods deficit with China is down 16.5%, and is likewise down with Japan (34.7%), the EU 27 (7.7%), and Korea (7%).  In the USMCA countries, the U.S. deficit with Canada is down 36% this year and Mexico’s surplus is slightly up due to their economic downturn’s effect on their demand for our exports."  
“Overall, the Trump trade policy is working in spite of the virus.  It is worth remembering that before the fallout from the pandemic, our goods trade deficit had been down from the previous year in five of the last six quarters, 7.2 million jobs had been created since the election—including over 510,000 manufacturing jobs—and median family income had increased by 6.8% in 2019, the largest increase in U.S. history.”
Key Points
•    The trade deficit increased in August because America’s economy has recovered more quickly than our trade partners’.  Because of President Trump’s leadership, coronavirus has had a smaller effect on our economy than any other G7 nation.  U.S. GDP is down 9% from a year ago compared to 21.5% for Britain, 18.9% for France, 17.7% for Italy, 13% for Canada, 11.3% for Germany, and 9.9% for Japan.  Since May, U.S. exports and imports have both begun to rebound, but imports have recovered more quickly.  With that said, U.S. goods exports still increased from $90 billion in May to $119.1 billion in August, a 32% increase.
•    The trade deficit was shrinking before the pandemic.  The U.S. goods trade deficit fell by $16 billion in 2019 and has been down from the previous year in five of the last six quarters.
•    This year’s trade deficit increases have been driven by imports of gold bars.  Of the $22.6 billion year-t0-date increase in the trade deficit, $22 billion is attributable to a spike in non-monetary gold imports, which reflect risk-hedging strategies by traders and investors during the pandemic and not underlying economics.
•    The trade deficit with China is shrinking as the Phase One Deal continues to take effect.  In August, the trade deficit with China fell $1.9 billion as exports to China rose and imports remained level.  Year-to-date, the goods trade deficit with China also decreased by $38.2 billion (16.5%) from the same period in 2019.
•    Overall job growth and manufacturing job growth were strong prior to the pandemic.  Between November 2016 and February 2020, the Trump economy added more than 7.2 million jobs, including over 510 thousand manufacturing jobs.  The unemployment rate had also fallen from 5.1% in November 2016 to 3.5% in February 2020, a 50-year low.
•    Middle class income was surging prior to the pandemic.  In 2019, median household income rose by over $4,300 (6.8%) – the largest annual increase on record and nearly 50 percent more than during the entire eight years of the Obama Administration ($3,021).
•    Manufacturing wages have continued to rise, despite the pandemic.  Average hourly earnings for production and nonsupervisory employees in manufacturing rose by 11.4% between November 2016 and September 2020.
•    The U.S. has already regained over half of the jobs that were lost due to the pandemic, including over half of the manufacturing jobs.  This year saw the four best months for job growth since the government began tracking the data in 1939: 4.8 million jobs in June, 2.7 million in May, 1.7 million in July, 1.4 million in August.  In September, the economy added an additional 661,000, still the highest numbers since September 1983 if you exclude May-August.  These numbers include 716,000 manufacturing jobs regained since April.  Despite the CBO forecasting an unemployment rate of 16 percent in the third quarter of 2020, the rate has already fallen to 7.9 percent, down from 14.7 percent in April.


EU Has No Legal Basis to Impose Aircraft Tariffs; WTO Award Relates Only to Now-Repealed Tax Break, Rejects EU Request on Other Measures
10/13/2020
Washington, D.C. – The World Trade Organization (“WTO”) issued an arbitration decision today that leaves the European Union (“EU”) with no lawful basis to impose tariffs on imports from the United States.  The EU sought the right to impose countermeasures relating to NASA and Department of Defense research and development (“R&D”) subsidies, but the WTO arbitrator rejected that request.  The EU also sought the right to impose countermeasures relating to the Washington State Business & Occupation tax rate reduction.  The WTO arbitrator explicitly did not take into consideration Washington State’s repeal of that tax provision on April 1 of this year, limiting its review to the impact during the 2012-15 period, to which it assigned a value of approximately $4 billion per year.
“While we disagree with certain aspects of its valuation, the more important point is that the arbitrator did not authorize any retaliation for subsidies other than the Washington State tax break,” said United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer.  “Because Washington State repealed that tax break earlier this year, the EU has no valid basis to retaliate against any U.S. products.  Any imposition of tariffs based on a measure that has been eliminated is plainly contrary to WTO principles and will force a U.S. response.”  
Ambassador Lighthizer continued, “The United States is determined to find a resolution to this dispute that addresses the massive subsidies European governments have provided to Airbus and the harm to U.S. aerospace workers and businesses.  We are waiting for a response from the EU to a recent U.S. proposal and will intensify our ongoing negotiations with the EU to restore fair competition and a level playing field to this sector.”
Washington State enacted Engrossed Senate Bill 6690, which – effective April 1, 2020 – raised the aerospace B&O tax rates to the generally applicable level, thereby removing the sole illegal measure and bringing the United States into full compliance with WTO rules.  Under WTO rules, a WTO Member can apply authorized countermeasures only until the illegal measure, or the harm from that measure, is eliminated, which has already occurred in this dispute.  
In the arbitration, the EU sought countermeasures of over $10 billion per year.  However, the arbitrator determined that the EU incorrectly identified R&D measures that could not serve as a basis for countermeasures.  The arbitrator rejected EU requests based on aeronautics R&D measures that were not found to breach WTO rules in a prior compliance proceeding.
The United States continues to impose tariffs on EU goods because of the EU’s failure to withdraw billions of euros of illegal launch aid subsidies for the Airbus A380 and A350 programs.  However, to maximize the chances of success in ongoing negotiations to end this dispute, the United States has exercised restraint by declining to impose on the EU the full amount of authorized countermeasures.    
Background
After many years of seeking unsuccessfully to convince the EU and four of its member States (France, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom) to cease their subsidization of Airbus, in 2004 the United States brought a WTO challenge to EU subsidies.  The EU responded by challenging what it claimed were subsidies to Boeing by the United States. 
Two separate WTO panels addressed the claims brought by the United States and the EU, respectively.  The two processes resulted in two very different sets of WTO findings and subsequent actions.  
The U.S. Claims Against the EU
Nearly ten years ago, the WTO found that the EU provided Airbus $17 billion in subsidized financing and that European “launch aid” subsidies for every Airbus aircraft to that point breached WTO rules, causing Boeing to lose sales of more than 300 aircraft and to lose market share throughout the world. 
The EU left its subsidies mainly unchanged and then granted Airbus billions of euros in new subsidized “launch aid” financing for a new aircraft, the A350.  The United States was forced to challenge both the EU’s failure to eliminate subsidies already found to be WTO-inconsistent, including subsidies for the A380, and the new subsidies for the A350.  In May 2018, the WTO found that the A350 subsidies breached WTO rules and caused serious prejudice to U.S. interests.  The report also found that subsidies to the A380 continue to cause significant lost sales of Boeing aircraft, as well as impedance of exports of Boeing aircraft to numerous countries. 
In October 2019, a WTO arbitrator authorized the United States to impose tariffs on $7.5 billion worth of EU goods per year to counter the ongoing harm to the United States from the EU subsidies.  A separate WTO panel found in December 2019 that the EU had failed to remedy either the A380 subsidies or the A350 subsidies.  
The EU Claims Against the United States
The EU’s original 2004 dispute alleged that the United States provided unlawful subsidies to Boeing.  The WTO found that the United States provided Boeing with relatively small subsidies in research and development funding and tax benefits, with far more limited market effects than the EU’s subsidies to Airbus.
In response to the WTO’s findings, the United States modified research and development funding to Boeing and revoked much of the tax benefits.  The EU challenged whether the United States had taken sufficient action to comply with the findings against it.  In April 2019, the WTO adopted compliance reports finding that the Washington State tax rate reduction continued to cause adverse effects to the EU as of the end of the 2012 compliance period.  The EU did not prevail on any of its remaining challenges to 29 state and federal programs alleged to harm Airbus.  
In April 2020, Washington State fully repealed the B&O tax rate reduction, the only provision found in the WTO compliance proceeding to be an inconsistent subsidy that harmed the EU.  


Ambassador Robert Lighthizer Issues Statement Concerning the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act
10/13/2020
Washington, D.C. – Ambassador Robert Lighthizer issued the following statement today concerning the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act:
“President Trump’s October 10 action to reauthorize certain provisions of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (CBERA) will help to preserve well-paying jobs in the U.S. textile industry while also strengthening our trade ties with Caribbean beneficiary countries, especially Haiti.  Importantly, CBERA’s eligibility criteria also provide a means to promote more open markets, protection of intellectual property rights, and stronger worker rights in beneficiary countries.”
Background
The Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act was launched in 1983 to facilitate economic development and promote economic diversification in the Caribbean region by providing duty-free access to the U.S. market for certain goods from Caribbean beneficiary countries.  In 2000, the Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act (CBTPA) expanded this access to additional goods not covered under CBERA including apparel, petroleum products, and some agricultural products.  The legislation signed by President Trump extends the CBTPA provisions of CBERA through September 30, 2030.  CBTPA is unique among U.S. trade preference programs in that it requires the use of U.S.-manufactured yarns or fabrics in finished apparel goods eligible for trade benefits, supporting many jobs in the U.S. textile sector.  The eligibility criteria under CBERA and CBTPA require that beneficiary countries meet certain requirements including 1) providing equitable and reasonable access to the markets and basic commodity resources of the country, 2) protection of intellectual property rights, and 3) taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights to their workers.  CBTPA beneficiary countries are Barbados, Belize, Curacao, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, St. Lucia, and Trinidad and Tobago.


USTR Announces Enforcement Action to Block Illegal Timber Imports from Peru
10/19/2020
Washington, D.C. – Today, United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer directed United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to continue to block future timber imports from Inversiones La Oroza SRL (Oroza), a Peruvian exporter, based on illegally harvested timber found in its supply chain.  The current CBP denial of entry order against Oroza was set to expire this month.  This marks the third time that the Trump Administration has taken such an enforcement action under the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement’s (PTPA) Annex on Forest Sector Governance (Forest Annex), further demonstrating its commitment to keeping illegal timber out of the United States and enforcing our trade agreements.  
“President Trump takes seriously and is prioritizing enforcement of our trade agreements,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “We remain committed to trade and investment that accelerates economic growth and simultaneously protects the environment.  We will continue to monitor Peru’s compliance with its obligations under our trade agreement to ensure that illegally-harvest timber cannot be exported to the United States.”
Background
The PTPA contains an enforceable Environment Chapter and Forest Annex, which includes a requirement for Peru to conduct audits of particular timber producers and exporters, and upon request from the United States, perform verifications of particular shipments of wood products.  The Interagency Committee on Trade in Timber Products from Peru (Timber Committee) monitors Peru’s compliance with the PTPA’s requirements.  In 2016, the Timber Committee requested that Peru verify that a specific timber shipment from Oroza complied with all applicable Peruvian laws and regulations.  The verification process conducted by Peru revealed that significant portions of the Oroza shipment were not compliant with the applicable laws and regulations governing the harvest of and trade in timber products. 
As a result of the verification process, in October 2017, the Trump Administration took unprecedented action to deny entry of timber products and exports by Oroza.  To date, however, the Government of Peru has not demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Timber Committee that Oroza is compliant with the necessary requirements for the harvest of and trade in timber products.
As this action demonstrates, while the Forest Annex has catalyzed meaningful reforms in Peru’s forestry sector, significant work remains for Peru to address its ongoing challenges to combat illegal logging.  The United States and Peru continue to engage in a cooperative and meaningful way to combat illegal logging and work toward improving forest sector governance.  USTR and the Timber Committee will continue to monitor Peru’s implementation of the commitments in the Environment Chapter.  
For additional information on the PTPA Forest Annex, please click here.


United States and Brazil Update Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation with New Protocol on Trade Rules and Transparency
10/19/2020
Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States and Brazil signed a new Protocol relating to Trade Rules and Transparency.  This Protocol updates the 2011 Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation (ATEC) with three new annexes comprising state-of-the-art provisions on Customs Administration and Trade Facilitation, Good Regulatory Practices, and Anticorruption.
“From their first meetings, President Trump and President Bolsonaro have shared a vision for a prosperity partnership between the United States and Brazil and a desire for new trade initiatives.  Today’s Protocol uses the existing ATEC to establish common standards for the two countries on efficient customs procedures, transparent regulatory development, and robust anti-corruption policies that will create a strong foundation for closer economic ties between our two countries,” stated Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.
The ATEC allows engagement on a wide range of issues related to trade and investment.  As the United States and Brazil implement today’s Protocol, they will also continue to explore ways to increase trade in goods and services and encourage further investment.
Background
U.S. goods and services trade with Brazil totaled an estimated $105.1 billion in 2019. Exports were $67.4 billion; imports were $37.6 billion. The U.S. goods and services trade surplus with Brazil was $29.8 billion in 2019.
Brazil is currently our 14th largest goods trading partner with $73.7 billion in total (two way) goods trade during 2019. Goods exports totaled $42.9 billion; goods imports totaled $30.8 billion. The U.S. goods trade surplus with Brazil was $12.0 billion in 2019.
…
The full text of the U.S.-Brazil ATEC Protocol on Trade Rules and Transparency can be found here.
An additional joint statement by the United States and Brazil can be found here.
A fact sheet on the Protocol can be found here.


USTR and USDA Release Report on Agricultural Trade between the United States and China
10/23/2020
Washington, DC – The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) today issued a report highlighting the progress made to date in implementing the agricultural provisions in the U.S.-China Phase One Economic and Trade Agreement, which is delivering historic results for American agriculture.
Since the Agreement entered into force, the United States and China have addressed a multitude of structural barriers in China that had been impeding exports of U.S. food and agricultural products. To date, China has implemented at least 50 of the 57 technical commitments under the Phase One Agreement. These structural changes will benefit American farmers for decades to come. China also has substantially ramped up its purchases of U.S. agricultural products. To date, China has purchased over $23 billion in agricultural products, approximately 71% of its target under the Phase One Agreement. Highlights outlined in the report include:
 
Corn: Outstanding sales of U.S. corn to China are at an all-time high of 8.7 million tons.
Soybeans: U.S. soybeans sales for marketing year 2021 are off to the strongest start in history, with outstanding sales to China double 2017 levels.
Sorghum: U.S. exports of sorghum to China from January to August 2020 totaled $617 million, up from $561 million for the same period in 2017.
Pork: U.S. pork exports to China hit an all-time record in just the first five months of 2020.
Beef: U.S. beef and beef products exports to China through August 2020 are already more than triple the total for 2017.
 
In addition to these products, USDA expects 2020 sales to China to hit record or near-record levels for numerous other U.S. agricultural products including pet food, alfalfa hay, pecans, peanuts, and prepared foods.
"This China Phase One Agreement is proof President Trump’s negotiating strategy is working. While it took China a long time to realize President Trump was serious, this deal is a huge success for the entire economy. This agreement finally levels the playing field for U.S. agriculture and is a bonanza for America’s farmers, ranchers, and producers," said U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue. "Being able to participate in this market in a more fair and equitable way has generated more sales that are supporting higher prices and strengthening the rural economy."
"President Trump delivered on his promise to confront China’s unfair trade practices and expand market opportunities for U.S. agriculture through the Phase One Agreement. Since the Agreement entered into force eight months ago, we have seen remarkable improvements in our agricultural trade relationship with China, which will benefit our farmers and ranchers for years to come," said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.
USTR and USDA continue to work closely with the Chinese government to ensure that the Phase One Agreement is fully and properly implemented, so that access for U.S. food and agricultural products into the Chinese market can continue to expand moving forward.
The report is available here.


Statement from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative on the WTO Director-General Selection Process
10/28/2020
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative issued the following statement today on the selection of the next World Trade Organization Director-General:
The United States supports the selection of Korean Trade Minister Yoo Myung-hee as the next WTO Director-General.  Minister Yoo is a bona fide trade expert who has distinguished herself during a 25-year career as a successful trade negotiator and trade policy maker.  She has all the skills necessary to be an effective leader of the organization.
This is a very difficult time for the WTO and international trade.  There have been no multilateral tariff negotiations in 25 years, the dispute settlement system has gotten out of control, and too few members fulfill basic transparency obligations.  The WTO is badly in need of major reform.  It must be led by someone with real, hands-on experience in the field.


United States and European Union Hold Third Joint Committee Meeting under Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance
10/30/2020
On October 26, 2020, the United States and the European Union held the third meeting of the Joint Committee established under the U.S.-EU Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (“the Agreement” hereafter). The United States and the European Union signed the Agreement on September 22, 2017, and the Agreement entered into force on April 4, 2018.
The Agreement—which is a ‘covered agreement’ as defined by the Dodd-Frank Act for the United States and an agreement under Articles 114 and 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the European Union—addresses three areas of prudential insurance oversight: (1) reinsurance; (2) group supervision; and (3) the exchange of insurance information between supervisors.
The Joint Committee meeting was conducted by video conference and attended by representatives from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union, as well as by U.S. state insurance commissioners and representatives from the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the Federal Reserve Board.
During this third Joint Committee meeting under the Agreement, participants on both sides provided updates regarding the implementation of the Agreement on reinsurance, group supervision and exchange of information.
Both sides discussed progress made toward timely implementation of the Agreement, including on the removal of collateral and local presence requirements for reinsurers, on the provisions on group supervision and on exchange of information. In addition, the United States and the European Union reaffirmed their commitment to continuous review of progress on the Agreement and close coordination between the two sides. Consistent with the Agreement, both sides are continuing to encourage relevant authorities to refrain from taking any measures that are inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Agreement.



USTR Announces GSP Enforcement Action, Country Successes, and New Eligibility Reviews
10/30/2020
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) announced today that President Trump is suspending $817 million in trade preferences for Thailand under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program based on its lack of sufficient progress providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access for pork products.  
USTR also announced the closure of GSP eligibility reviews with no loss of benefits for three countries: Georgia, based on improvements in the protection of worker rights; Uzbekistan, also based on improvements in the protection of worker rights; and Indonesia, based on improvements aimed at providing the United States with equitable and reasonable market access.  USTR also announced the closure of the GSP designation review of Laos with no change in status and the opening of two new GSP eligibility reviews of Eritrea and Zimbabwe, based on worker rights concerns.  
“Today’s announcement demonstrates the effective use of the GSP program to improve labor standards and help U.S. businesses and workers succeed,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer.  “It also demonstrates the Trump Administration’s commitment to robust monitoring and enforcement of our trade preference programs and underscores that when countries do not meet the congressionally mandated eligibility criteria, we will take action by limiting their preferential duty-free access to the U.S. market.” 
USTR also announced the results of the GSP annual product review, including addition of fresh-cut roses to, and removal of parboiled rice from, the list of goods eligible for GSP trade benefits.  
Background 
GSP, the largest and oldest U.S. trade preference program, is designed to promote economic development by allowing duty-free entry into the United States for 3,500 products from the 119 designated beneficiary countries and territories.  To remain eligible for these advantages, beneficiary countries must comply with 15 statutory eligibility criteria, including taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights, providing adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, and assuring equitable and reasonable access to its markets. 
Today’s announcement represents the culmination of three separate processes under the GSP program: determinations on ongoing GSP eligibility reviews of beneficiary countries, based on stakeholder petitions or self-initiation of reviews by USTR; triennial assessments of all beneficiary developing countries in the Middle East, North Africa, and sub-Saharan Africa to determine whether to launch new GSP eligibility reviews; and the annual GSP product review, which provides stakeholders the opportunity to request the addition of products to, and/or removal of products from, the list of goods eligible for duty-free treatment under GSP.
Outcomes of Ongoing GSP Eligibility Reviews
Thailand: Despite 12 years of bilateral engagement, Thailand has yet to provide the United States with equitable and reasonable market access for pork products, as outlined in a 2018 petition from the National Pork Producers Council (NPPC) requesting removal of GSP benefits.  GSP eligibility will be revoked for approximately one-sixth of Thailand’s GSP trade, representing $817 million in U.S. imports under the GSP program in 2019.  The decision is effective on December 30, 2020 and will close the review of Thailand.  The list of products to be excluded from GSP for Thailand is focused on products for which the United States is a relatively important market for Thailand but where Thailand accounts for a relatively small share of U.S. imports.  A full list of the products to be excluded from GSP for Thailand is available here.
Georgia: USTR is closing a GSP worker rights eligibility review of Georgia, originally opened in 2012, after Georgia passed legislation in September 2020 that grants labor officials the authority to conduct unannounced inspections and enforce internationally recognized worker rights in all sectors of the economy.  The new, expanded enforcement authority builds on other significant legal protections for workers enacted during the course of the review.  The United States will continue to engage with the Government of Georgia to promote effective implementation of the new authorities. 
Uzbekistan: USTR is closing the GSP worker rights eligibility review of Uzbekistan opened in 2008.  The ILO monitoring program found no systematic use of child labor in the cotton harvest and a continued decline in forced adult labor for the fifth year in a row.  The government has criminalized the use of forced adult labor and abolished cotton production quotas.  The government has also significantly raised the wage rate for cotton pickers, thereby greatly increasing the pool of voluntary labor.  The United States will continue to engage with the Government of Uzbekistan to promote further progress in the elimination of forced labor in Uzbekistan’s cotton harvest.
Indonesia: USTR is closing the GSP market access eligibility review of Indonesia opened in 2018, following positive steps that Indonesia has taken to address a broad range of trade and investment issues.  These positive steps address U.S. concerns related to market access for U.S. goods, services, and agricultural products, and include specific reforms to Indonesia’s digital trade, insurance and reinsurance, and agricultural import policies.  Indonesia has agreed to continue to work with the United States to ensure the successful implementation of these policies for the benefit of both countries.  
Laos: In 2013, Laos requested that it be designated as a GSP beneficiary.  Following a lack of recent engagement by the government of Laos on the worker rights eligibility criterion, USTR is closing the GSP designation review without a change in status. 
New GSP Eligibility Reviews
In October 2017, USTR announced a new triennial process to assess GSP beneficiary country eligibility.  The first year’s assessment covered the GSP beneficiary countries in Asia and the Pacific and the second year’s covered the GSP beneficiary countries in Europe and the Western Hemisphere.  This year’s assessment covered the 54 GSP beneficiary countries in the Middle East, North Africa, and sub-Saharan Africa.  For each country, USTR and other U.S. Government agencies, including the Departments of State, Labor, Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, Homeland Security, and others, examined national policies and practices related to each of the 15 eligibility criteria established by Congress.  
As a result of this assessment, USTR is self-initiating GSP eligibility reviews for Eritrea and Zimbabwe, based on concerns related to compliance with the GSP worker rights criterion.  The concerns in Eritrea relate to forced labor associated with Eritrea’s national service requirement as well as a lack of freedom of association.  Labor rights concerns in Zimbabwe relate to a lack of freedom of association, including the rights of independent trade unions to organize and bargain collectively, and government crackdown on labor activists.
2020 GSP Product Review
The proclamation President Trump signed today adds fresh-cut roses (HTS 0603.11.00) to, and removes parboiled rice (HTS 1006.30.10) from, the list of goods that are eligible for GSP trade benefits.  The proclamation also waived Competitive Need Limitations (CNLs) for products in which total imports are below the $24.5 million GSP de minimis level.  Finally, the proclamation removed GSP eligibility for six products from Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, and Indonesia that exceeded the $190 million CNL threshold for imports from a single country, above which the GSP statute requires removal of the product from eligibility.   
A full list of decisions on the product petitions accepted for review in 2020 can be found here.
For more information on the GSP program, visit the GSP page on the USTR website here.


USTR Statement on Successful Conclusion of Steel Negotiations with Mexico
11/05/2020
Washington, DC – Mexico and the United States have successfully concluded consultations held pursuant to their Joint Statement of May 17, 2019 to address the transshipment of grain-oriented electrical steel (GOES) from outside the North American region into the United States through GOES-containing downstream products.  Pursuant to the Joint Statement, Mexico will establish a strict monitoring regime for exports of electrical transformer laminations and cores made of non-North American GOES.  From the fourth quarter of 2020 onward, Mexico will closely monitor shipments of these products to the United States.  In light of these measures, imports from Mexico will not be subject to any action to adjust imports of electrical transformers and related parts that may be adopted by the United States under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended.  The United Stated and Mexico will consult at regular intervals on the implementation of these agreed measures and on the state of bilateral trade and market conditions relating to these products.  
 
The United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, praised his counterpart, Secretary of Economy Graciela Márquez Colín, for Mexico’s continued cooperation and constructive engagement on issues covered by the May 2019 Joint Statement: “The resilience of North America’s energy infrastructure is significantly enhanced by having electrical steel production capability within our region.  An influx of low-price steel from third countries imperils this capability.  I thank Secretary Márquez and her staff for their continued engagement and close coordination as we worked to find cooperative solutions to a common regional challenge.”


United States Responds to European Union Tariff Announcement
11/09/2020
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer responded to the announcement by the European Union today imposing tariffs on certain products from the United States.  
“The United States is disappointed by the action taken by the EU today,” Ambassador Lighthizer stated.  “The alleged subsidy to Boeing was repealed seven months ago.  The EU has long proclaimed its commitment to following WTO rules, but today’s announcement shows they do so only when convenient to them.”   
Background
As part of a 16-year-old litigation involving large civil aircraft, the EU alleged that a certain Washington State tax provision benefited Boeing.  In response to a WTO panel decision, Washington State unambiguously repealed this tax provision on April 1, 2020.  Under such circumstances, a WTO member cannot unilaterally impose retaliatory tariffs on a trading partner.  
The USTR is in negotiations with the EU with the hope of resolving this longstanding dispute relating to large civil aircraft.


Joint Statement of the United States-Ecuador Trade and Investment Council
11/19/2020
On November 10, the United States and Ecuador held the third meeting of the United States-Ecuador Trade and Investment Council (TIC). The U.S. delegation was led by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Michael Nemelka, and the Ecuadorian delegation was led by the Minister of Production, Foreign Trade, Investment, and Fisheries, Mr. Ivan Ontaneda. Both delegations included officials from trade and other regulatory agencies.
This meeting reflects the high priority both countries place on deepening trade and investment ties. Representatives of both countries discussed a range of trade and investment-related issues, including intellectual property, environment, labor, and trade in agriculture products.
They also discussed the implementation of an ambitious economic and trade agenda between Ecuador and the United States. Both countries reconfirmed their commitment to accelerating work under the U.S.-Ecuador TIC, including completion of negotiation of a Protocol on Trade Rules and Transparency, based on the high-standard provisions in recent U.S. and Ecuador trade agreements. The United States and Ecuador anticipate concluding these negotiations, which will include provisions on trade facilitation, good regulatory practices, anti-corruption, and cooperation on small and medium-sized enterprises, before the end of the year.
Both countries look forward to further deepening our engagement in 2021 and to convening the fourth meeting of the Trade and Investment Council in Quito, Ecuador. 


United States and Ecuador update Trade and Investment Council Agreement with New Protocol on Trade Rules and Transparency
12/08/2020
Today, the United States Trade Representative, Robert Lighthizer, and Ecuador Minister of Production, Foreign Trade, Investment, and Fisheries, Iván Ontaneda, signed a new Protocol on Trade Rules and Transparency.  This Protocol updates the U.S.- Ecuador Trade and Investment Council Agreement (TIC) with four new annexes comprising state-of-the-art provisions on Customs Administration and Trade Facilitation, Good Regulatory Practices, Anticorruption, and Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises. Once implemented, the Protocol will deliver tangible benefits for traders and investors in all sectors.
“The United States and Ecuador have worked closely in recent years to address a number of trade issues important to stakeholders in both countries,” stated Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Today’s Protocol builds on the existing TIC Agreement to establish high standards for efficient customs procedures, transparency in regulatory development, anti-corruption policies, and cooperation and information sharing to benefit small and medium-sized enterprises.  This Protocol is an important step in establishing closer economic ties between our countries.”
The TIC provides a forum for discussing a wide range of trade and investment issues.  In addition to implementing this Protocol, the United States and Ecuador will continue to work within the TIC to promote increased trade, including by promoting reform of Ecuador’s import licensing regime.
The full text of the U.S.-Ecuador TIC Protocol on Trade Rules and Transparency can be found here.
An additional joint statement by the United States and Ecuador can be found here.
A fact sheet on the Protocol can be found here.


United States Takes Action for American Dairy Farmers by Filing First-Ever USMCA Enforcement Action
12/09/2020
Action by USTR Seeks to Hold Canada Accountable for Undermining Value
of Its Dairy TRQs
Washington, D.C. – United States Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer announced today that the United States is exercising its rights under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) to address measures adopted by the Government of Canada that are contrary to the provisions of the agreement and harm U.S. dairy farmers.  Specifically, the United States is challenging Canada’s allocation of dairy tariff-rate quotas (TRQs).  By setting aside and reserving a percentage of each dairy TRQ exclusively for processors, Canada has undermined the ability of American dairy farmers and producers to utilize the agreed-upon TRQs and sell a wide range of dairy products to Canadian consumers.   
“President Trump successfully renegotiated the USMCA to replace the failed NAFTA, and a key improvement was to give U.S. dairy producers fairer access to Canada’s highly protected dairy market,” said Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Canada’s measures violate its commitments and harm U.S dairy farmers and producers.  We are disappointed that Canada’s policies have made this first ever enforcement action under the USMCA necessary to ensure compliance with the agreement.  This action demonstrates that the United States will not hesitate to use all tools available to guarantee American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses enjoy the benefits we bargained for.”
Ambassador Lighthizer provided official notice to Canada that it was exercising its rights to enforce the USMCA in a letter to Canada’s Minister of Small Business, Export Promotion and International Trade Mary Ng.  If the United States and Canada are not able to resolve the United States’ concerns through consultations, the United States may request the establishment of a USMCA dispute settlement panel to examine the matter.
Background
As defined in the USMCA, a TRQ is “a mechanism that provides for the application of a preferential rate of customs duty to imports of a particular originating good up to a specified quantity (in-quota quantity), and at a different rate to imports of that good that exceed that quantity”.  Under the USMCA, Canada has the right to maintain 14 TRQs on dairy products, including milk, cream, skim milk powder, butter and cream powder, industrial cheeses, cheeses of all types, milk powders, concentrated or condensed milk, yogurt and buttermilk, powdered buttermilk, whey powder, products consisting of natural milk constituents, ice cream and ice cream mixes, and other dairy.
In notices to importers that Canada published in June and October for dairy TRQs, Canada sets aside and reserves a percentage of the quota for processors and for so-called “further processors”, contrary to Canada’s USMCA commitments.  This restriction undermines the value of Canada’s TRQs for U.S. producers and exporters by limiting their access to in-quota quantities negotiated under the USMCA.
A copy of the consultation request can be found here.


USTR Responds to UK Statement on WTO Large Civil Aircraft Dispute
12/09/2020
On December 8, the United Kingdom (UK) announced that it would not continue tariffs imposed by the European Union (EU) on imports from the United States starting January 1, 2021 in order to de-escalate the large civil aircraft conflict and come to a negotiated solution.  The United States welcomes this decision and shares the UK’s objective of reaching a negotiated resolution.
The United States does not agree, however, that the UK would have any authority to impose tariffs.  Only the EU sued the United States at the WTO; the UK did not bring a case in its individual capacity.  Therefore, the UK has no authority from the WTO to participate in any such action after it no longer is part of the EU.  By contrast, the United States sued the EU as well as France, Germany, Spain, and the UK individually over massive subsidies to Airbus.  As a result, the WTO authorized the United States to impose countermeasures on each of those countries and the entire EU.  
The United States has, however, exercised great restraint with its retaliatory tariffs.  Like the UK, the United States considers that a negotiated settlement best serves the interests of all parties.  In that regard, the United States encourages the UK to bring renewed focus to settlement discussions.


Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer Announces USTR Annual Awards During Virtual Event
12/11/2020
Washington, D.C. – Today, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative held its annual awards ceremony, recognizing outstanding achievement and service among the more than 250 employees at USTR.  
This year, we announced the first ever Ambassador’s Award, which is given in recognition of extraordinary efforts of an individual who goes significantly beyond the requirements of their position and makes notable contributions in advancing U.S. trade interests.  The Ambassador’s Award went to Constance A. Hamilton, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for African Affairs.  Connie is a 41-year veteran of federal service with 20 years at USTR, having served as a distinguished economist and trade negotiator.  Connie and her team launched Free Trade Agreement talks with Kenya earlier this year and have made substantial progress in the ensuing months under difficult conditions imposed by the pandemic.
The William B. Kelly Award recognizes an employee who demonstrates the highest standard of professional excellence in the trade field and demonstrates sustained contributions and leadership in advancing USTR’s goals, an exemplary degree of initiative and creativity, and great respect from peers and superiors.  This year’s recipient is Roy Malmrose, Policy Analyst in the WTO & Multilateral Affairs office and one of the longest-serving employees at USTR.  Roy is well-known across the U.S. government and in the stakeholder community for his expertise in industrial subsidies and safeguards and is a lead subsidy negotiator in the WTO and its committees and groups.  
The Linda Enoch Award recognizes dedicated service and excellence in administrative management, including the qualities of professionalism, initiative, creativity, and respect of peers.  This year’s recipient is Tia Potskhverashvili, Trade Research Assistant in the Environment & Natural Resources Office.  Tia’s positive professionalism has earned her the respect and warm admiration of not only her colleagues in the Environment Office, but of USTR staff across the agency.
The Excellence in Service Award recognizes an employee who has made an extraordinary contribution in an administrative services position over a period of at least two years.  This year we recognize Drauthon Antoine, who serves as an IT Network Specialist in the Administration Office.  Drauthon has been instrumental in promoting and providing IT services and assistance throughout USTR, and he helped lead the redesign of the initial phases of USTR’s intranet systems while working under difficult conditions.
USTR also recognizes two recently retired colleagues with the Distinguished Career Service Award:
Sharon Bomer-Lauritsen was most recently Assistant United States Trade Representative for Agriculture, ably expanding opportunities around the world for U.S. agricultural producers and exporters.  Both her skills as a negotiator with foreign counterparts and her outreach to the wide community of U.S. agriculture stakeholders were exemplary.  She also served on USTR’s Performance Review Board and the Awards Committee to help ensure that USTR recruited, nurtured, and rewarded the very best personnel.
John Melle served as Assistant United States Trade Representative for the Western Hemisphere and as lead negotiator for the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).  John’s decades of exemplary service at USTR were capped off by achieving a landmark trade deal with America’s two largest trading partners.  John was a true USTR institutionalist, and all those who worked with him benefited enormously from his dedication to USTR and its mission.  
The Superior Achievement Award recognizes employees for special efforts significantly above and beyond the requirements for their position.  This year’s Superior Achievement Award recipients are: David Boling, Linda Chambers, Julia Doherty, Jerry Duran, Elizabeth Kosobucki, Karen Lezny, Amanda Mayhew, Kelly Milton, Jamesa Moone, Celestine Pressley, Carlos Romero, Deborah Tidwell.


Joint Statement on the 5th U.S.-Nepal Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Council Meeting
12/16/2020
The United States-Nepal Council on Trade and Investment, under the United States-Nepal Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA), held its fifth meeting virtually on December 15, 2020 to promote expanded bilateral trade and investment in both goods and services.  The meeting was co-chaired by Mr. Christopher Wilson, Assistant United States Trade Representative for South and Central Asia, and Mr. Baikuntha Aryal, Secretary of Commerce and Supplies, Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Supplies, Government of Nepal.  Both delegations included officials from trade, finance, labor, and other regulatory agencies.
During the meeting, representatives discussed a range of bilateral trade and investment-related issues covered under the TIFA, including, among others, customs and trade facilitation, intellectual property, digital trade and e-commerce, labor, financial services, investment promotion, trade in agriculture products, and utilization of the Nepal Trade Preference Program.
The United States affirmed its engagement with Nepal on its efforts to foster innovation and investment through improvements in intellectual property protection and enforcement.  Nepal provided an update on its initiatives to increase intellectual property protection through legislative changes.  The United States welcomes the opportunity for further updates and engagement on these changes.  Recognizing the important role of digital trade in fostering economic growth, Nepal and the United States agreed to explore ways to deepen engagement on policy developments affecting the digital economy. 
The United States welcomed Nepal’s efforts to promote internationally recognized worker rights and the implementation of Nepal’s labor laws.  Nepal affirmed the importance it attaches to worker rights and both countries agreed to engage in constructive discussions on these issues.  The United States also welcomed confirmation that there is no restriction on the import of U.S. pork and poultry in the Nepali market, and Nepal’s Department of Food Technology and Quality Control (DFTQC) recognizes the food certificates of the National Competent Authority of USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS).  Both countries agreed to remain engaged on market access issues of mutual interest. 
Nepal and the United States discussed the importance of fully utilizing U.S. preferential trade benefits for select products from Nepal, available through December 31, 2025 as a result of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015.  Taking note of Nepal’s interest in expanding utilization of the trade preference program and reviewing Nepal’s concept note, the United States expressed willingness to provide further technical assistance to Nepal to increase trade and investment.
Nepal provided an update on recent investment policy reform initiatives taken to improve its investment climate and emphasized its interest in attracting additional foreign investment from the United States.  The United States took note of this interest and suggested ways in which Nepal could further enhance the business climate to attract investment.
Both governments pledged their commitment to deepen their engagement in these issue areas over the coming months in intersessional meetings and to hold the 6th TIFA Council Meeting in Kathmandu, Nepal as soon as travel conditions permit.
Background
The Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Nepal (TIFA) entered into force on April 15, 2011.  Objectives of the agreement include the expansion of trade, investment and technical cooperation, and strengthening economic relations between the two countries. 
Following the 2015 earthquakes in Nepal, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 established a new country-specific preference program to grant duty-free treatment to Nepal for products covered by 77 Harmonized Tariff Schedule lines (including handicrafts, shawls, and travel goods). 
Nepal and the United States had $213.4 million in total (two-way) goods trade during 2019, a 38 percent increase compared to 2018. 


United States Modifies Tariffs on EU Products in Large Civil Aircraft Dispute
12/30/2020
The United States is adjusting tariffs on certain products imported from the European Union.  The U.S. was authorized in October 2019 to impose additional duties on approximately $7.5 billion in EU products as a result of the WTO Large Civil Aircraft litigation.  The United States implemented its authorized countermeasures in a restrained way and used trade data from the prior calendar year to determine the amount of products to be covered.  
In September, 2020 the EU was authorized to impose tariffs affecting $4 billion in U.S. trade as a result of related WTO litigation.  In implementing its tariffs, however, the EU used trade data from a period in which trade volumes had been drastically reduced due to the horrific effects on the global economy from the COVID-19 virus.  The result of this choice was that Europe imposed tariffs on substantially more products than would have been covered if it had utilized a normal period.  Although the United States explained to the EU the distortive effect of its selected time period, the EU refused to change its approach.  
As a result, to keep the two actions proportionate to each other, the U.S. is forced to change its reference period to the same period used by the European Union.  However, in order to not escalate the situation, the United States is adjusting the product coverage by less than the full amount that would be justified utilizing the EU’s chosen time period.  
The EU made another choice that unfairly increased the amount of retaliation.  The EU calculated the amount of trade to be covered using EU-27 trade volume (i.e., excluding UK trade).  The effect of this was to unfairly increase the retaliation for the 52 days in which the UK remained within the EU for tariff purposes.  The EU needs to take some measure to compensate for this unfairness.
The products subject to the additional tariffs include aircraft manufacturing parts from France and Germany, certain non-sparkling wine from France and Germany, and certain cognac and other grape brandies from France and Germany.
Additional details will be provided in a forthcoming Federal Register notice.


USTR Releases Findings in DST Investigations
01/06/2021
Washington, DC – The U.S. Trade Representative has issued findings in Section 301 investigations of Digital Service Taxes (DSTs) adopted by India, Italy, and Turkey, concluding that each of the DSTs discriminates against U.S. companies, is inconsistent with prevailing principles of international taxation, and burden or restricts U.S. commerce.  
The findings on each of the DSTs are supported by comprehensive reports, which are being published today on USTR’s website.  
USTR is not taking any specific actions in connection with the findings at this time but will continue to evaluate all available options.  
The Section 301 investigations of the DSTs adopted by India, Italy, and Turkey were initiated in June 2020, along with investigations of DSTs adopted or under consideration by Austria, Brazil, the Czech Republic, the European Union, Indonesia, Spain, and the United Kingdom.  USTR expects to announce the progress or completion of additional DST investigations in the near future. 
The reports and Federal Register notices summarizing the determinations are available at the following links: India DST report; India DST notice; Italy DST report; Italy DST notice; Turkey DST report; Turkey DST notice.


Suspension of Tariff Action in France Digital Services Tax Investigation
01/07/2021
Washington, DC – The U.S. Trade Representative has determined to suspend the tariff action in the Section 301 investigation of France’s Digital Services Tax (DST).  The additional tariffs on certain products of France were announced in July 2020, and were scheduled to go into effect on January 6, 2021.  The U.S. Trade Representative has decided to suspend the tariffs in light of the ongoing investigation of similar DSTs adopted or under consideration in ten other jurisdictions.  Those investigations have significantly progressed, but have not yet reached a determination on possible trade actions.  A suspension of the tariff action in the France DST investigation will promote a coordinated response in all of the ongoing DST investigations.
The suspension of the France DST tariffs is set out in a notice sent for publication in the Federal Register.


USTR Releases 2020 Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy
01/14/2021
Washington, DC – The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) today released the findings of its 2020 Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy (the Notorious Markets List), which highlights online and physical markets that reportedly engage in or facilitate substantial trademark counterfeiting and copyright piracy.
“Holding intellectual property rights violators accountable and ensuring that American innovators and creators have a full and fair opportunity to use and profit from their work is critical for both physical and online markets,” said U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.  
The 2020 report includes for the first time a section addressing the role of Internet platforms in facilitating the importation of counterfeit and pirated goods into the United States.  “Today, the greatest risk of importation of counterfeit and pirated goods, harming both U.S. content creators and U.S. consumers, is posed not by foreign flea markets and dark web sites but by inadequate policies and inadequate action by e-commerce companies that market and sell foreign products to American consumers,” stated Ambassador Lighthizer.  “Combatting piracy and counterfeits will require sustained effort by both the federal government and by companies that profit from the sale of such goods.”
In addition to addressing the role of e-commerce in facilitating the sale of pirated and counterfeit goods, the 2020 Notorious Markets report identifies 39 online markets and 34 physical markets that are reported to engage in or facilitate substantial trademark counterfeiting and copyright piracy.  This activity harms the American economy by undermining the innovation and intellectual property rights of U.S. IP owners in foreign markets, and it harms American consumers as well.  An estimated 2.5 percent, or nearly half a trillion dollars’ worth, of imports worldwide are counterfeit and pirated products.
USTR initiated this Review on October 1, 2020, through publication in the Federal Register of a request for public comments.  The request for comments and the public’s responses are online at www.regulations.gov, Docket number USTR-2020-0035.
To read the 2020 Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy, click here.


USTR Releases Findings and Updates in DST Investigations
01/14/2021
Washington, DC – The U.S. Trade Representative has issued findings in Section 301 investigations of Digital Service Taxes (DSTs) adopted by Austria, Spain, and the United Kingdom, concluding that each of the DSTs discriminates against U.S. companies, is inconsistent with prevailing principles of international taxation, and burden or restricts U.S. commerce.
The findings on each of the DSTs are supported by comprehensive reports, which will be published today on USTR’s website.
“The taxation of companies that engage in international trade in goods and services is an important issue,” stated U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer.  “The best outcome would be for countries to come together to find a solution.”
USTR is not taking any specific actions in connection with the findings at this time but will continue to evaluate all available options. 
The Section 301 investigations of the DSTs adopted by Austria, Spain, and the United Kingdom were initiated in June 2020, along with investigations of DSTs adopted or under consideration by seven other jurisdictions.  On January 6, 2021, USTR announced findings in the investigations of DSTs adopted by India, Italy, and Turkey.
DSTs are under consideration or development in the four remaining jurisdictions – Brazil, the Czech Republic, the European Union, and Indonesia – but are not currently in effect.  USTR is releasing a status update for these jurisdictions.
The reports, Federal Register notices summarizing the determinations, and the status update are available at the following links: Austria DST report; Austria DST notice; Spain DST report; Spain DST notice; United Kingdom DST report; United Kingdom DST notice; DST Investigations Status Update.


USTR Releases Annual Reports on WTO Compliance of China and Russia
01/15/2021
Washington, DC – As required by U.S. law, today the United States Trade Representative released annual reports assessing China’s and Russia’s implementation of their respective World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments.
The report on China’s WTO compliance can be found here.
The report on Russia’s WTO compliance can be found here.


USTR Releases Findings in Section 301 Investigation of Vietnam’s Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Currency Valuation
01/15/2021
Washington, DC – The U.S. Trade Representative has issued findings in the Section 301 investigation of Vietnam’s acts, policies, and practices related to currency valuation, concluding that Vietnam ’s acts, policies, and practices including excessive foreign exchange market interventions and other related actions, taken in their totality, are unreasonable and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.  In making these findings, USTR has consulted with the Department of the Treasury as to matters of currency valuation and Vietnam’s exchange rate policy.  
The findings in this investigation are supported by a comprehensive report, which is being published today on USTR’s website.
“Unfair acts, policies and practices that contribute to currency undervaluation harm U.S. workers and businesses, and need to be addressed,” stated U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer.  “I hope that the United States and Vietnam can find a path for addressing our concerns.”  
USTR is not taking any specific actions in connection with the findings at this time but will continue to evaluate all available options.
The Section 301 investigation was initiated in October 2020.
The report is available here.  The Federal Register Notice is available here.
css-16my406
All patriotic Americans should condemn the violence we saw at our Capitol today.  This is inconsistent with our democracy and our most cherished values. -ARL
Sonny Perdue
President Trump is delivering results for America’s farmers and ranchers through the Phase One Agreement with China. After many years of effort, we are pleased to see the first shipment of U.S. rice arriving in China this week and look forward to continued purchases from China.
Building on the great relationship between the U.S. and Brazil under the leadership of President Trump and President Bolsonaro,
All patriotic Americans should condemn the violence we saw at our Capitol today.  This is inconsistent with our democracy and our most cherished values. -ARL
Chief Agricultural Negotiator Gregg Doud met with farmers at the
Today we celebrate and honor the achievements and drive of America's workers, farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and businesses! Happy Labor Day!
Federal Agencies Outline Plan to Help Farmers of Seasonal and Perishable Fruits and Vegetables.
Read the plan from
Under the leadership of
Since the beginning of his Administration,
Deputy
Deputy
Deputy
The European Union has agreed to eliminate its tariffs on imports of live and frozen lobster from the U.S.
WSJ Editorial Page
Under the leadership of President Trump, the U.S. looks forward to continuing these important talks with the U.K. and achieving an historic agreement between our two great nations.
This week, Ambassador Lighthizer welcomed Secretary Liz Truss to Washington to discuss the shared commitment between the U.S. and U.K. to negotiate an ambitious and high-standard trade agreement.
Ambassador Lighthizer comments on the death of Congressman John Lewis: "The world has lost a great statesman and leader, and I have lost someone I consider to be a friend and hero." Read his statement here:
Two-way goods trade between the United States and Kenya reached $1.1 billion in 2019, up 4.9% from 2018.
VIDEO: Watch Ambassador Lighthizer deliver remarks at today's launch of Free Trade Agreement negotiations between the U.S. and Kenya.
Top U.S. goods exports to Kenya in 2019: aircraft, plastics, machinery, and cereals (wheat).
To read our negotiating objectives with Kenya, click
Today the U.S. and Kenya launched Free Trade Agreement negotiations.
Landmark
TribLIVE.com
VIDEO: The
The White House 45 Archived
United States-Kenya Negotiating Objectives
USDA and USTR Announce Continued Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
Ambassador Lighthizer Statement on Resignation of WTO Director General Azevêdo
USTR and Treasury Statement on Call With China
A comprehensive trade agreement between the United States & the United Kingdom will seek to remove barriers to trade and expand opportunities for our businesses, workers, farmers, and consumers.
U.S. Notifies Full Compliance in WTO Aircraft Dispute
The United States & the United Kingdom agree that a Free Trade Agreement would contribute to the long-term health of our economies, which is vitally important as we recover from the challenges posed by Covid-19.
Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Launch of U.S.-UK Trade Negotiations
TribLIVE.com
VIDEO: The
The White House 45 Archived
United States-Kenya Negotiating Objectives
USDA and USTR Announce Continued Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
Ambassador Lighthizer Statement on Resignation of WTO Director General Azevêdo
USTR and Treasury Statement on Call With China
A comprehensive trade agreement between the United States & the United Kingdom will seek to remove barriers to trade and expand opportunities for our businesses, workers, farmers, and consumers.
U.S. Notifies Full Compliance in WTO Aircraft Dispute
The United States & the United Kingdom agree that a Free Trade Agreement would contribute to the long-term health of our economies, which is vitally important as we recover from the challenges posed by Covid-19.
Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Launch of U.S.-UK Trade Negotiations
"The U.S. & the UK are the first & fifth largest economies in the world, respectively.

A US-UK FTA is a priority for both countries & we share a commitment to secure an ambitious FTA that significantly boosts trade & investment."
Joint Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer and UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss
USTR Releases Annual Special 301 Report on Intellectual Property Protection and Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy
USMCA To Enter Into Force July 1 After United States Takes Final Procedural Steps For Implementation
css-16my406
All patriotic Americans should condemn the violence we saw at our Capitol today.  This is inconsistent with our democracy and our most cherished values. -ARL
Sonny Perdue
President Trump is delivering results for America’s farmers and ranchers through the Phase One Agreement with China. After many years of effort, we are pleased to see the first shipment of U.S. rice arriving in China this week and look forward to continued purchases from China.
Building on the great relationship between the U.S. and Brazil under the leadership of President Trump and President Bolsonaro,
All patriotic Americans should condemn the violence we saw at our Capitol today.  This is inconsistent with our democracy and our most cherished values. -ARL
Chief Agricultural Negotiator Gregg Doud met with farmers at the
Today we celebrate and honor the achievements and drive of America's workers, farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and businesses! Happy Labor Day!
Federal Agencies Outline Plan to Help Farmers of Seasonal and Perishable Fruits and Vegetables.
Read the plan from
Under the leadership of
Since the beginning of his Administration,
Deputy
Deputy
Deputy
The European Union has agreed to eliminate its tariffs on imports of live and frozen lobster from the U.S.
WSJ Editorial Page
Under the leadership of President Trump, the U.S. looks forward to continuing these important talks with the U.K. and achieving an historic agreement between our two great nations.
This week, Ambassador Lighthizer welcomed Secretary Liz Truss to Washington to discuss the shared commitment between the U.S. and U.K. to negotiate an ambitious and high-standard trade agreement.
Ambassador Lighthizer comments on the death of Congressman John Lewis: "The world has lost a great statesman and leader, and I have lost someone I consider to be a friend and hero." Read his statement here:
Two-way goods trade between the United States and Kenya reached $1.1 billion in 2019, up 4.9% from 2018.
VIDEO: Watch Ambassador Lighthizer deliver remarks at today's launch of Free Trade Agreement negotiations between the U.S. and Kenya.
Top U.S. goods exports to Kenya in 2019: aircraft, plastics, machinery, and cereals (wheat).
To read our negotiating objectives with Kenya, click
Today the U.S. and Kenya launched Free Trade Agreement negotiations.
Landmark
TribLIVE.com
VIDEO: The
The White House 45 Archived
United States-Kenya Negotiating Objectives
USDA and USTR Announce Continued Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
Ambassador Lighthizer Statement on Resignation of WTO Director General Azevêdo
USTR and Treasury Statement on Call With China
A comprehensive trade agreement between the United States & the United Kingdom will seek to remove barriers to trade and expand opportunities for our businesses, workers, farmers, and consumers.
U.S. Notifies Full Compliance in WTO Aircraft Dispute
The United States & the United Kingdom agree that a Free Trade Agreement would contribute to the long-term health of our economies, which is vitally important as we recover from the challenges posed by Covid-19.
Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Launch of U.S.-UK Trade Negotiations
TribLIVE.com
VIDEO: The
The White House 45 Archived
United States-Kenya Negotiating Objectives
USDA and USTR Announce Continued Progress on Implementation of U.S.-China Phase One Agreement
Ambassador Lighthizer Statement on Resignation of WTO Director General Azevêdo
USTR and Treasury Statement on Call With China
A comprehensive trade agreement between the United States & the United Kingdom will seek to remove barriers to trade and expand opportunities for our businesses, workers, farmers, and consumers.
U.S. Notifies Full Compliance in WTO Aircraft Dispute
The United States & the United Kingdom agree that a Free Trade Agreement would contribute to the long-term health of our economies, which is vitally important as we recover from the challenges posed by Covid-19.
Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer on the Launch of U.S.-UK Trade Negotiations
"The U.S. & the UK are the first & fifth largest economies in the world, respectively.

A US-UK FTA is a priority for both countries & we share a commitment to secure an ambitious FTA that significantly boosts trade & investment."
Joint Statement of USTR Robert Lighthizer and UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss
USTR Releases Annual Special 301 Report on Intellectual Property Protection and Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy
USMCA To Enter Into Force July 1 After United States Takes Final Procedural Steps For Implementation




















