So which of these three countries is the US going to sanction now? Maybe all three together...? Time to grow up US!!!	55
Good to see the summit held without US & her lapdogs. No politics, just moving forward, strengthen the commitment and cooperation among the three countries.	107
This is the real positive powers we need to lead the world to peace and prosperity. Thanks China, German and France!	45
It's so beautiful. It seems Germany and France want to have independent foreign policy for Europe and their respective countries.	80
US Fukushima fuss proves that the new administrations is just skin depth.	39
Congrats to China for electing a wise leader	27
Germany and France both are leaders of the EU really. germany has big and strong foot hold in China market., their products are particularly a favourite of Chinese consumers and french wine.	18
Good to see this calm summit without uncle sam.	42
Well done China, Germany and France working as a teams. 	9
This is the real cilmate change meeting when each country expresses its wishes and proposes cooperation. Talking to US is a waste of time because US just want to instruct others what to do and does nothing itself. When it is to US interest it can pull out from a deal unilaterally. Now there is something to be gained and it wants to join in unilaterally.	41
If only the americans are mature enough to sit down to discuss like a gentleman and not go around to sabotage other countries in order to make themselves look great	17
Excellent	29
Really beautiful	17
Love from Brazil	16
China stands tall among all other nations on these issues! Why not? China controlled & contained covid 19 which can be considered a sinister attack on China on hindsight. This can be construed to be to stop China on the upward trajectory. Now the whole world had to suffer covid 19 crisis because of this sinister plan by an unknown actor.	11
We are very proud of the Chinese people and their achievements since the 1949 revolution when they expelled colonialist and imperialist parasites and ended the century of humiliation. Each CPC leadership has fulfilled its historic role with excellence and now we see President Xi continuing the tradition as the greatest revolutionary leadership of the 21st century	10
Look so peace the meeting without us	1
so harmony without usa	19
Wonderful	8
Should also discuss the nuclear waste water regarding Japan.	21
Imagine smiling and waving like everything is fine when you sent warships to China's doorstep not too long ago, that is awkward AF. No wonder Xi Jin Ping din't reciprocate.	3
It’s funny that president Xi didn’t really want to talk to Biden at all!	20
The Chinese media are reporting this summit and have uploaded several videos on YouTube. But I cannot find a single video uploaded by DW of Germany or France 24 of France.	2
Bien por la participación trilateral virtual por el bien de la ecología y el planeta	6
I would like to see those anti chinese and USA leaders poker face now.hahaha	6
No point attending the summit in Glasgow. UK intends to kidnap Chinese officials should they go to the UK.	10
We can see who is really care about international issues, unlike someone who keeps talking about the little island which belongs to another country.	0
Without the US, most of this high-level / Discussion meeting usually has a very positive outcome.	1
It is a welcome move that the two.biggest economies from EU such as Germany and France were able to meet with China virtually to discuss major climate change issues , global trade cooperation and the Covid 19 Pandemic after UK was not able to get China to attend.	0
United China, France and Germany will lead the world to peace and prosperity.	4
Side-light the American,, God willing	4
President Xi sounds like a "real world statesman" which we in the West no longer see anymore. => "Building a community with a shared future for humanity". That is so nice to hear for change ; maybe we in West can have a President Xi or a Kennedy again in our life time?	24
Russia release covid-19 in Wuhan that is why they were the only ones to successfully vaccinate against it because they knew how	0
Both Merkel and Xi are from a science background. I’m not sure about Macron.	0
LONG LIVE THE FRIENDSHIP	15
Chinese style, more suitable for France , Russia; Middle East , Germany, and even Israel, realistic, win/ win for all, more business like, they won’t put themselves in a position where you can turn them away easily, Korea,Japan and south East Asian should know these styles, as we were all suppressed before, rational,realistic and acceptable ( not necessarily fair) because we need each other and never expect anything free, if USA and the allies doesn’t get these right, they are out because history worked against them	0
Kindly check your video sound level	1
Usa probably seething with anger that china is chatting with its allies	0
Biden: excuse me.....	0
Hahaha ignoring unclos on wps vvv	0
BIDEN WHERE ARE YOU?????? WK....WK.....	0
if’s it’s my opinion on the world government please don’t make it by geographic society beings since it’s not our attitude and asking for the Government power please	1
Show full video or it didn't happen.	0
Cooperation is better then verbal attacks by US.	0
usa already warn german a sanction	0
Very constructive meeting unlike uncle Sam 's Atlantic meeting. China policy is win-win with partners where else USA is you do as I tell you to if not we sanction or tariff you.	0
Cooperation is the future,not sanctions.	0
Leaders of China, Germany, and France talk about Climate Change, virtually. And what is Kerry doing in Shanghai?	0
CIZIPIN is the BEST PRESIDENT ever!	3
I would appreciate less words and bigger writing. Words Moving too fast.. Thank you.	0
America ready sanction EU, Germany and France	0
Someone is really jealous as not invited for this conference..... I bet you all know who....	0
Someone is really jealous as not invited for this conference..... I bet you all know who.... 	0
USA?	0
Defy some country	0
Everything will be smooth without the 2 trouble maker... US and UK.	5
if US can sanction Russia interfere in election, why can't China sanction US on interference internal matter.	5
Lots of lights on in that palace. A few less would be eco-friendly. Interesting that these countries want to get on. Just as well Boris or Biden didn't enter the chat!
chinese banded youtube in their country, ironically chinese media has youtube channel. hide truth in your country and spread lies to the world ?	0
No US , is this the down hill sign?????	3
At present, no members of eu can be trusted. Next chapter eu will issue sanction again follow their master.	6
You're seeing world leaders here halving a candid conversation. The US? MIA, irrelevant. US is too busying trying to round up a group of hoodlums to badmouth china. :) The world does not need the US, a double talking, trouble maker. If I were China, I'd completely ignore the US or ever have a meeting with the US until the US shuts up and stalk talking nice. Otherwise, what is the point of any meeting. See you in the next four years. :)	0
Lmao now let’s watch a protest or some sh*t happening in either France or Germany in the coming month	0
Do dong Chong long wing dong rong tang Wang sang hang woooaaa	2
Deutsche n francaise hoping China to buy more hermes n mercs?	0
Do you think China's have word of honor have for that meeting.. I don't think so.	0
"
Do you think China's have word of honor have for that meeting.. I don't think so."	0
Can you imagine if Muslims in Germany and France were put in re education camps, prison schools to dilute their Islamic tendancies?	0
Republic of China is the real China	6
The Republic of China has long perished. It is the Kuomintang who fled to Taiwan. Now the legitimate political party of the Chinese nation is the Communist Party of China. Now the civil war in China is not over, so it is natural to fight Taiwan at any time.	2
Meanwhile: US attend unilateral meeting with US and agreed with US that the United States of America should remain global hegemon forever.	120
Meeting is so Different between China and EU vs China and US.	9
Kahore taku toa i te toa takitahi, he toa takitini. We cannot succeed without the support of those around us. "To achieve common prosperity for all, no one should be left behind." - Xi Jinping.	3
I see Tiger Yang, I hit like!	40
Nice to see Xi speaking, he only come out for the real deal.	10
Good to see the summit held without US & her lapdogs. No politics, just moving forward, strengthen the commitment and cooperation among the three countries. It is a win for the whole world.	9
Great to see more cooperation between China and EU. Especially on one of the most pressing issues for humanity. The US should take notes.	139
Cooperation is always good in the international community, especially during this extreme difficult period for the world.	56
This is really a mutual benefit ... don't join America	26
Interesting.... Once again, the wind is shifting, however slightly.	14
USA "kou sau???" Diuuuuuuuuuuu. China " kou sau???" Oh yeah.!!!!!!!!!!!!	0
Xi Jinping is great leader and less talkative believe human are on one boat	10
America: i will sanction france germany	10
Love from Brazil	10
Think of the future not the present as for now we see the future	12
China attends video submit with German and France leader BUT somebody feels uneasy with that	2
Awesome ,Great job!	5
love CHINA ! love 	9
Yes let’s talk about how we can work together whilst at the same time we are at war with each other, could humans be any less authentic?	1
Great! One who laughs first will laugh last.	1
Li qiuyuan is so sexy	0
Per capita emission, China is only ranked number 13 at 7.04 T per capita according 2018 data. Yet other than oil producing countries, S Africa and Russia, all the rest are so called "western alliance" are on the top 12 per capita such as countries like Australia, USA, Canada, S Korea, Japan, Germany and Poland. Australia is #3 at 17 T per capita. US is #4 at 16.5T per capita. Japan at 9.12 T per capita. Yet Japan	5
When did US. Recognise human rights I must have been asleep	3
wonderful	0
President Xing ping is a great leader	53
Great job 馃憤馃憤 China.| loved the steps this country is taking	0
1CHINA 1USA ECONOMI GUNA SAYA JALAN TENTU TIADA MASALAH!!!SEBAB MALAYSIA MAHU KERJA KOSONG ONLY!!!	0
How about Biden's invitation for Earth Day Submit? No one joining? So no give face.	7
President Xi Jinping Zindabad.	0
wow he really does look exactly like Winnie the Pooh.	0
Someone is jealous on the China, Germany, and French summit.	1
China is the only one do what it preaches. And you are alwaya not certain what the other leaders say, until you see what they do, and sometime they never do.	2
China will become no.1 superpower in the world very soon. I always pray and hope. Love china 馃嚚馃嚦 from bangladesh 馃嚙馃嚛.	8
It鈥檚 my opinion with the United national family, please don鈥檛 let your geopolitical reasons for world 馃寧 health care will of the WHO	1
Us always think they are international police whole world must follow them instructions otherwise you will be punishment by sanctions	0
If the world will be EU, China, US and Russia as part of top 4, it would be in the best interest of the world.	0
If the german leader says something it isn't going to happen..	0
Bravo China, you rock!	16
Usa going to enter black water into Tibet through afganistan making rebels of Tibet to fight against china	1
Wait for the French backstab that will follow.	0
Awesome	8
Xi jinping done a great job to protect its mother nature and their own country people's	11
SUPER XI!	3
Xiziping spreading LOVE and CARE trought the borders! There is not leader better than him.	0
SIRVE ONE SIR HEAVEONE SEASIREARTHRONE SUNMEDHA SEANANAYAKE	0
Long live China	7
This is more substantial and pragmatic, nice.	2
Nice one from Xi	10
I wish Merkel would stay on... She is always so level headed.	1
the EU leaders is polite this time because a 'Tiger' sat next to Pres. Xi!	0
Where is Uk? Oh, it will be divided soon.... Lets invite both of them, next time.	9
Good thing should happen apart from aggressive countries.	0
Less talk more work... Time is limited	0
france and germany looks bitter is it because they know they are losing or is it they know china is rising in any case they need china	1
When you pressure anybody. They will come back even stronger. US has no credibility to talk about human rights nor telling other what to do!	105
China is taking another BIG INITIATIVES to improve and sustaining the FUTURE of humankind of the global world with other big leaders. U.S. REGIME would definitely out of the league as their commitment always on MILITARY and ARMS...	0
China rejected UK, but chose to cooperate with France and Germany 馃嚚馃嚦馃嚝馃嚪馃嚛馃嚜 UK PM Boris Johnston must be very embarrassed lol	47
why does the www nuc, always point to where winning the pooh is? It use to always point to Beijing	4
Xi can play with others well, and serious about business that western powers cares about	0
good multilateralism.	1
I agree with President Xi.	28
Look it's whinnie the pooh	5
Truly a God in human form.	0
Germany's position confuses me, didn't they just signed a treaty with Japan to contain China?	2
EU wants cooperation and open trade with China and yet stabs China in the back with unfounded allegations and sanctions.	38
Russia and China will attach together, Russia on Ukraine and China on Taiwan.	3
Meanwhile Modi is busy in elections	1
President Xi, please, try to avoid Maquereau, even at a distance: he soils all virtue, he smells bad.	1
When the last CCP can be trusted!	0
The China media, CGTN and CCTV, have reported extensively on this important summit meeting between President Xi Jinping, Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Macron, and they have uploaded several videos on YouTube. But, so far, I have not found a single video on this summit uploaded by either DW of Germany or France 24 of France or by any other German or French media outlet.	5
China also should talk with u k on climate change ,no need for ego problem ,others would be ashamed as china is the right path in xinjiang hongkong scs etc	2
Winnie the pooh	0
UN need to come looking in to USA racism Asian and discriminate minority.	0
Meanwhile, Biden have to deal with another mass shooting in Fedex depot! Apparantly, he's forgotten about it because President Harris forgot to mention it too!	18
giant middle finger to Biden.	0
USA, UK, CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, ARE IRRELEVANT. DON’T WASTE TIME, MONIES, RESOURCES, ON IRRELEVANT.	13
At the end of the day, French and German leaders will side with USA and UK. This is in spite of USA and UK have been bullying them. Their motivation is all from racial lens. Best if China ditch them early.	5
China will supply vaccines to FR/GER.	0
China is cleaver , so go towards china now	0
China and Russia need each immediately thousands bases, each for minim one each base daily satellite launch, because we intend to blow all existing satellites in enlarged space Earth-Moon, so, you'll have to make again all satellites from zero in the shortest time.	0
To improve the lives of Earth's common people are very important, not like some other nation only think of ownself no.1 position.	1
If can’t defeat China then join them!	0
"From Allah’s khalifa over the worlds; the Imam Mahdi Nasser Mohammad Al-Yemeni to the entire humans in urban and (remote) rural areas in easts of earth and its wests, be witnesses against	0
Good job China leaving troublemaker US out from the meeting.... Wherever US is around there will be trouble for sure...	0
Don’t trust China	5
Leave Taiwan alone.	0
Oh it's Winnie the communist Pooh again	1
My respects to Frau Merkel.	0
After 2 tequila I request to leave wine 差.... It has nothing to do with Chinese preaching climate change.	1
France and German should get Chinese vaccine ASAP. The situation is very bad.	0
Wuhan virus	0
See you all in the front lines 5 years from now. Who shoots first WIN.	1
incompetent	1
We Pakistanis believe that China is a superpower	8
Can't trust EU, they biting each other, complex situation with Brits, always changing tunes and rhetoric, but always inline with US interest look what happen to vaccines issues, Russian Nordstream, Iranian new sanctions before nuclear negotiation. So much for remains of Old world.	2
Islam’s message to mankind... Quran 2:83 Thou shall not worship except one Almighty. Thou shall do good to your parents, relatives, orphan and needy. Thou shall speak good to people. Thou shall perform regular prayers and give regular charity. Quran 112 Say “ Almighty Is one , Almighty is ever living and absolute, Neither does he have any parents nor children and He is unique “ Islam is the same religion that was given Prophet Noah, Abraham,(Rama),Moses and Jesus (peace be upon them)	0
China lie people die.
why cant 馃嚛馃嚜 have a president like 馃嚚馃嚦 Xi	1
This CGTN video is nonsense!!	2
Germans are smart. They are not swayed much by Western propaganda.	1
Too much make up on Tracey! Can also start wearing some traditional Chinese clothes!	0
Europe should stand on its own..no need to.follow USA or.China..all business ...	0
Imagine 馃嚚馃嚦"Xi the Terrible" to host an Olympic? ...no no no	0
these comment sections are always great. on one side you have the wumao's praising china and on the other side you have wumao's pretending to be from other countries shouting in broken english. always fun	0
Good. However, everybody should just stop with all the sanctioning. It's not constructive and is aimed at stifling economic development. It's therefore really not helping the people who just live normal lives. Take for example Syria. The US is literally taking bread out of these people's mouths, smuggling wheat across the border to Iraq. Haven't these people suffered enough already? It's just inhumane and sick. Yet the US goes on about human rights. Hypocrites.	0
How u can trust china when the dixtators has no acountabiloty. If chinise dont like their dixtator they have to live with it until it dies and chose the next suxceccesor	3
Australians think that the CCP are nothing but pig dog's, your money is worthless, you are an embarrassment to the world, we gave you friendship and you betrayed us, expect revenge for your disgusting behaviour,	0
Ohmy... People's Leader is already got whitehairs.	1
Worlds without USA is no worlds.	2
APPRECIATE THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR SUPPORTING THE UYGUAR MUSLIMS IN XINGJANG. CARBON EMISSION IN CHINA WILL REDUCE NATURALLY AS ALL THE COUNTRIES IN 7 CONTENENTS WILL STAY AWAY FROM CHINESE PRODUCTS AND OPPOSE CHINA FOR ITS WICKEDNESS.	2
Chinese President..LOl	6
come on . Christian from all of china, pray for our country and Our President Xi jinping, For he is humble and lowly in heart. May God exalt him	0
Xi jinping, the best President in the world.	8
I have a friend who works directly under President Xi Jinping, and he told me that our President in secretly gave an apology to the French and German leaders for his role in causing and spreading this virus from Wuhan. He cannot admitt this openly to the world off course. I am glad that our dear leader atleast admitts his partys mistakes, even if he cannot go open on this.	1
We are very proud of the Chinese people and their achievements since the 1949 revolution when they expelled colonialist and imperialist parasites and ended the century of humiliation. Each CPC leadership has fulfilled its historic role with excellence and now we see President Xi continuing the tradition as the greatest revolutionary leadership of the 21st century.	1
China destroy humanity.	2
So many wumao	5
China "is not" going to reduce carbon omissions and/or pollution. Xi said what the EU wanted to hear, and they believe him. My congrats to Xi.	0
All countries are complaining in many issues given by China, The world is suffering enough and China is still making trouble, Taiwan, India, Japan, Asean , u.s ! Xi wants world domination not thinking of the gravity and consequences of war!	1
Second Corona wave from China started, more people are dying all over the world.	3
China , May malaki pa kayong makakalaban , hindi lang ang Amerika... Which is kinausap na ng inyong Presidente...	1
Xi - Yes by 2060 China will be carbon neutral Translation - China continues to build coal power stations at alarming rates. While the EU screws up their economies going green China will sell solar panels making big profit. When we get to 2060 we’ll worry about pollution then and negotiate another 50 years	4
Imagine pretending to care about the environment when you're committing genocide in your own country.	5
Lmao online talk is so cheap Emmanuel and Angela has not physically visited chyyna because they know that han is the maker of v!russs Whereas uk	6
I hope Emmanuel and Angela has raised the gross human rights violations committed by the chyyna in Xinjiang	7
China is the world’s biggest carbon emitter, followed by the United States.	1
